Siemens Patches Authentication Bypass Flaw in SINAMICS ICS Software
Siemens has patched a serious remotely exploitable vulnerability in its SINAMICS S/G ICS software that could enable an attacker to take arbitrary actions on a vulnerable installation without having to authenticate.
The vulnerability affects all versions of the Siemens SINAMICS S/G products with firmware versions earlier than 4.6.11. ICS-CERT, a pat of the Department of Homeland Security, said in an advisory that it is not aware of any public exploit attempts against this flaw, but that’s no reason to delay patching. An authentication bypass vulnerability for a product such as SINAMICS S/G, which is used to control the operations of drives in industrial facilities, could be a very useful tool for an attacker.
“Siemens has identified an authentication bypass vulnerability in the SINAMICS S/G product family. Siemens has produced a firmware update that mitigates this vulnerability and has tested the update to validate that it resolves the vulnerability. Exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to access administrative functions on the device without authentication,” the ICS-CERT advisory says.
“The affected product, SINAMICS S/G family, is used to control a variety of drives, especially in mechanical engineering and plant construction. In addition, SINAMICS S/G family interacts with motion controllers that are used to coordinate synchronous operations or complex technology functions.”
The vulnerability is considered quite easy to exploit, and Siemens said that organizations that are running vulnerable versions of the software should install the updated firmware, versions 4.6.11 and 4.7. The company also recommends that customers not provide public access to the SINAMICS interface over the network.
“As a general security measure Siemens strongly recommends to protect network access to the interface of SINAMICS S/G with appropriate mechanisms. It is advised to follow recommended security practices and to configure the environment according to operational guidelines in order to run the devices in a protected IT environment,” the Siemens advisory says.
Image from Flickr photos of Surber. 
 
