Researchers Divulge 30 Oracle Java Cloud Service Bugs
Upset with the vulnerability handling process at Oracle, researchers yesterday disclosed more than two dozen outstanding issues with the company’s Java Cloud Service platform.
Researchers at Security Explorations published two reports, complete with proof of concept codes, explaining 30 different vulnerabilities in the platform, including implementation and configuration weaknesses, problems that could let users access other users’ applications, and an issue that could leave the service open to a remote code execution attack.
The Polish firm released the information after Oracle apparently failed to produce a monthly status report, a document that usually surfaces around the 24th of each month, for the reported vulnerabilities in March.
Adam Gowdiak, the company’s founder and CEO believes that Oracle is on the fence regarding the way it handles its cloud vulnerability handling policies.
“The company openly admits it cannot promise whether it will be communicating resolution of security vulnerabilities affecting their cloud data centers in the future,” Gowdiak said in an open letter posted to Security Explorations’ site on Tuesday.
Researchers dug up the following bugs in both US1 and EMEA1 versions of Oracle Java Cloud data centers.
Researchers argue a remote code execution attack would be quite easy to pull off if an attacker combined several of the aforementioned vulnerabilities.
“As a result of the combination of the implementation and configuration flaws outlined… arbitrary code execution access could be gained on a WebLogic server instance hosting Java Cloud services of other users from the same regional data center,” the report, which gets much more in depth regarding attack vectors, reads.
Essentially the attack would involve having a custom .JSP (JavaServer Page) file uploaded to a target WebLogic server, which could later be called upon to trigger the execution of Java code embedded in it.
Security Explorations initially got in touch with Oracle about the preceding vulnerabilities (.PDF) in late January but while it waiting on Oracle’s response, managed to find two additional issues.
Those bugs, 29 and 30 (.PDF), like several of the other 28, involve the service’s whitelisting implementation and can ultimately lead to its API being bypassed.
Oracle’s next batch of updates is set to be bundled together in its quarterly Critical Patch Update on April 15 although it’s unclear if the vulnerabilities from Java Cloud Service, a service the company introduced in 2012 to assist businesses in managing data and building database applications across the cloud will be addressed.
