Trio of Vulnerabilities Patched in Magneto Web App
A trio of vulnerabilities were recently patched in eBay’s Magento e-commerce web application that could have let attackers carry out a handful of exploits, including phishing, session hijacking, and data interception.
Hadji Samir, a researcher at the firm Vulnerability Lab dug up the problems earlier this year but it wasn’t until this week that they were disclosed, along with proof of concept logs and videos.
Perhaps the most troublesome issue fixed in the platform was a persistent filename vulnerability. A remote attacker could have injected their own script code into the application-side of the affected service module. This could have resulted in session hijacking, persistent phishing, persistent external redirects, along with “persistent manipulation of affected or connected module context,” according to the vulnerability disclosure.
A video that demonstrates the bug shows an attacker logging into Magento, creating a new message, and starting a session tamper to intercept session data. From there they can change the filename to a malicious payload of their choosing.
Samir also found a cross-site scripting (XSS) bug in the platform that could have made it easy for an attacker to remotely inject their own script code into the application-side of the vulnerable online-service module. This could have opened client side accounts up to theft by hijacking, client-side phishing, client-side external redirects and like the other bug, non-persistent manipulation of affected or connected service modules.
The last bug, a cross site request forgery (CSRF) vulnerability, could have allowed “unauthorized client-side application functions without secure validation or session token protection mechanism.” Basically an attacker could have intercepted user sessions and deleted their internal Magento messages without authorization.
Samir found the XSS bug in February and the other two March but Magento’s Developer Team held off until May to patch the issues. They were then publicly disclosed by Vulnerability Lab on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, this week.
Earlier this year developers fixed a remote code execution bug in the platform dug up by Check Point that could have exposed customers’ credit card information, along with other personal data.
Web stores running on Magento, purchased from eBay in 2011, make up about 30 percent of the eCommerce market.
