Microsoft Patches JScript, VBScript Flaw Under Attack
Microsoft released a hefty load of security bulletins today, which included a patch for a JScript and VBScript scripting engine vulnerability being publicly exploited.
The flaw is addressed in its own bulletin, MS16-053, but users need to pay attention to, and apply MS16-051 as well since the attack vector is through Internet Explorer.
MS16-051 addresses the issue in IE 9, 10 and 11; MS16-053 patches the flaw in IE 7 and earlier supported versions of the browser.
The flaw, CVE-2016-0189, is one of two memory corruption vulnerabilities in the scripting engines. Both enable arbitrary code execution if a victim, via IE, lands on an attacker’s site hosting the exploit; CVE-2016-0187 is the other flaw in the scripting engines patched today. Microsoft said the flaws exist because of how JScript and VBScript handle objects in memory in IE. VBScript 5.7 is vulnerable on Windows Vista, Windows Server 2008 and the Server Core installation option, while JScript 5.8 and VBScript 5.8 are vulnerable on Windows Server 2008 R2 for x64 Systems Service Pack 1 are vulnerable on the Server Core installation only.
Microsoft said that restricting access to VBScript.dll and JScript.dll would be effective and temporary workarounds.
The IE bulletin, meanwhile, patches three other vulnerabilities, including a bypass of Device Guard. The User Mode Code Integrity component improperly validates code integrity, Microsoft said, allowing an attacker to execute unsigned code that should be blocked.
There’s also a fix for a separate memory corruption issue in the browser allowing for arbitrary code execution, and an information disclosure flaw caused by the way IE handles file access permissions. An attacker could exploit this flaw too disclose the contents of files stored on the compromised machine.
In all, Microsoft pushed out 17 bulletins today, eight of those it rated critical, including a bulletin covering vulnerabilities in Flash Player, MS16-064, patching two dozen remote code execution flaws.
Microsoft also patched four remote code execution vulnerabilities in its Edge browser in MS16-052. Three of the flaws are in the Chakra JavaScript engine in the browser, none of which are publicly disclosed nor exploited. The remaining flaw occurs because of how Edge accesses objects in memory, leading to corruption and arbitrary code execution.
Another bulletin worth watching is MS16-054, which includes patches for four remote code execution flaws in Microsoft Office. In addition to Office, Microsoft cautioned that versions of Word going back to Office 2007 are vulnerable to CVE-2016-0198, one of three memory corruption flaws addressed in this bulletin. Users would have to be enticed to open a malicious Word document to exploit this flaw, Microsoft said. The remaining vulnerability is in Office Graphics, specifically in the way the Windows font library handles specially crafted embedded fonts. An attacker could exploit this over the web, or share the file with a user via email or IM, for example.
Microsoft also patched a critical remote code execution flaw in Windows Journal in MS16-056. An attacker could craft a malicious Journal file and trick the user into opening it in Windows Journal. The flaw affects every supported version of Windows.
MS16-055, meanwhile, patches five flaws in Microsoft Graphics Component, including three remote code execution flaws in Windows Imaging Component, Direct3D and Windows GDI component. The bulletin also includes two patches for information disclosure bugs in Windows GDI.
The final critical bulletin, MS16-057, patches one remote code execution bug in Windows Shell.
The remaining bulletins were rated important by Microsoft:
