Pirate Bay Spotted Hosting Monero Cryptocurrency Miner
A cryptocurrency miner surfaced on the world’s largest torrenting site for a day over the weekend, raising the ire of users unaware the tool was there, let alone leveraging their machine’s computing power.
Users noticed the miner Friday night on The Pirate Bay, a site that acts as a treasure trove of links to torrents, mostly illegal.
One user said on Reddit he had a feeling something was awry two days ago after observing his CPU threads spike to 80 and 85 percent upon navigating the site. Another user said on the site’s forum that he scoured the site’s HTML and stumbled upon Coin Hive code for a JavaScript miner, embedded in a page’s script.
Coin Hive lets companies monetize traffic by embedding a miner for Monero—an anonymous, untraceable cryptocurrency that’s enjoyed rampant popularity over the past several months—in a site’s code.
The company cautions sites against deploying its code without notifying their users, something it appears The Pirate Bay is guilty of.
“While it’s possible to run the miner without informing your users, we strongly advise against it,” a statement on its site reads, “You know this. Long term goodwill of your users is much more important than any short term profits.”
A Pirate Bay admin confirmed on Saturday the torrent site was testing out a miner but said it was only a test run and the service was seeking site visitors’ opinions on the behavior.
“This is only a test. We really want to get rid of all the ads. But we also need enough money to keep the site running,” a site admin posted on The Pirate Bay’s blog, “Let us know what you think in the comments. Do you want ads or do you want to give away a few of your CPU cycles every time you visit the site?”
The admin added that there was a mistake with the miner as it was originally implemented and that the miner should use only 20 to 30 percent of a machine’s power. If the user has multiple tabs open it will only mine from one of them and an ad blocker can also block the miner, the admin wrote.
Users, initially cranky about how the miner ran without the explicit authorization of users, warmed to the idea on Saturday.
“I think this is an interesting idea. Keeping users informed is essential though,” one user wrote. “Giving registered users possibility of choosing between ads and mining might be also viable (though most of them probably block ads). Having more options how to contribute is a great idea! I will gladly contribute by providing part of my CPU when visiting TPB.”
It’s unclear if the site, the source of countless legal threats and file sharing/copyright controversies over the years, plans to reintroduce the miner at some point.
Officials from the site, which was founded by a trio of Swedes in 2003, did not immediately return a request for comment on Monday.
While mining cryptocurrency is legal, it’s another story when sites trick users into installing mining software without their knowledge or secretly wear down their computer’s systems by mining without disclosing.
Monero, an open-source cryptocurrency in which the origin of transactions are obfuscated, has been all the rage with cybercriminals this summer.
Malware designed to mine Monero was spotted in an Amazon S3 storage bucket last month. Researchers with FireEye spotted the Neptune Exploit Kit pushing a similar campaign last month as well. The kit redirected victims with popups from an ad service and dropped a Monero miner onto victim’s machines.
Mining the cryptocurrency has been lucrative for attackers. It’s estimated that one mining network recently observed by Kaspersky Lab can generate roughly $30K a month for its owners.
