Cisco Warns 69 Products Impacted by KRACK
Cisco said Wednesday that multiple Cisco wireless products are vulnerable to the recently identified Key Reinstallation Attacks (KRACK).
On Monday, researchers revealed how the KRACK vulnerabilities plagued the WPA2 protocol used to secure all modern Wi-Fi networks. In their report, researchers demonstrated how the KRACK vulnerabilities can be abused to decrypt traffic from enterprise and consumer networks with varying degrees of difficulty.
U.S. CERT advised users to patch immediately.
According to Cisco’s advisory, no patches are available at this time for the 10 KRACK-related CVEs. Cisco did list one workaround for a limited number of its products. For some older models of Cisco products, the company said “no fixes will be made available.”
“Among these 10 vulnerabilities, only one (CVE-2017-13082) may affect components of the wireless infrastructure (for example, Access Points), the other nine vulnerabilities affect only client devices,” Cisco wrote in its Security Advisory. The KRACK vulnerabilities are rated “high” in severity by Cisco.
On its bulletin, Cisco lists 69 impacted products affected by one or more KRACK bugs. The company said it’s still assessing 25 additional products to determine if those are impacted as well.
“Updates for affected software releases will be published when they are available and information about those updates will be documented in Cisco bugs, which are accessible through the Cisco Bug Search Tool,” the company said.
Cisco did say a workaround for the KRACK bug CVE-2017-13082 was available, but that no workarounds have been identified for other KRACK-related vulnerabilities.
Cisco also patched its Cloud Services Platform 2100 virtualization platform on Wednesday, warning a vulnerability could allow an authenticated, remote attacker to interact maliciously with services on affected devices.
The Cloud Services Platform 2100, supports a bevy of Cisco networking services such as switches, network managers and third-party vendor services such as application firewalls.
Rated “critical” by Cisco, the Cloud Services Platform (CSP) vulnerability is due to weaknesses in the generation of certain authentication mechanisms in the URL of the web console, according to Cisco.
“An attacker could exploit this vulnerability by browsing to one of the hosted VMs’ URLs in Cisco CSP and viewing specific patterns that control the web application’s mechanisms for authentication control,” Cisco wrote.
An exploit could allow the attacker to access a specific virtual machine on the CSP, which causes a complete loss of the system’s confidentiality, integrity and availability, Cisco said.
The patch is available now and there are no workarounds for this bug, according to the advisory. The patch is for Cisco Cloud Services Platform (CSP) 2100 instances running software releases; 2.1.0, 2.1.1, 2.1.2, 2.2.0, 2.2.1, or 2.2.2.
The vulnerability was first identified by Chris Day, senior security consultant with MWR InfoSecurity.
Cisco also announced fixes for 16 additional bugs, with four identified as “high” severity vulnerabilities.
