How to Solve the Developer vs. Cybersecurity Team BattleThere is an ongoing tension between developers and security teams in many organizations.On one hand, developers face mounting pressure to build rich, feature-driven applications on nearly impossible timelines to remain competitive. On the other hand, security teams face rising pressures of their own that come from an increasingly dangerous cybersecurity threats and growing demands from consumers that organizations properly safeguard their data.Without proper planning, these two demands can come into conflict as each team focuses on meeting its own goals. Development teams see security teams as bottlenecks, slowing down each new release. Meanwhile security teams resent the extra (and unplanned) work responding to vulnerabilities created by developers who cut corners on secure coding in order to meet deadlines.However, with a little groundwork, organizations can set these teams up to work together and to help each other. The earlier a vulnerability is found in the development process, the easier, faster, and less expensive it is to fix; therefore, organizations need to find ways to move the focus on security earlier in the development process. That means that they should work with developers to make sure security is not an afterthought.The first step is to help the organization recognize the part security needs to play in the development process. This will allow product and business leaders to establish that security is an important part of applications they develop and must be considered by everyone involved in the process. These leaders must emphasize that security is a subset of quality, just like resilience, scalability, maintainability, uptime, and so on. It’s just that for most developers, security is simply uncharted territory. It just has not been part of their jobs or training before now.One of the easiest and most effective ways to communicate that security is a priority for an organization is to begin offering training on how to write secure code. By educating developers on basic techniques, they can take a little more personal ownership. No developer wants to write insecure code. They just need to understand how and why security issues arise and have access to helpful tools and resources to produce software that meets secure coding standards.The next step — the one with biggest and most scalable impact — is to bring the security and development teams into closer contact with each other. This may already be happening as organizations adopt DevOps or DevSecOps methodologies. Each team needs to not only work closely together, but also have a much deeper understanding of the others’ pains, processes and priorities.One of the most effective ways to do this is to designate a Security Champion on the development team.A Security Champion is a member of the developer team who understands application security best practices and helps advise their colleagues. They are trained by the security team to help developers find and fix vulnerabilities as early as possible in the development process, ultimately reducing the burden on the security team. This will not only help developers write more secure code, it will reduce the amount of unplanned work from vulnerabilities discovered late in the process. The ongoing interactions between the teams will also build trust and promote goodwill.It is understandable why security and development teams are so often at odds given the apparent incompatibility of their roles. But, with a little careful thought and open communication, organizations can bring them together so that they better understand what the other needs. That way, instead of fighting, they can help each other to build better software.(Chris Eng has over 15 years of application security experience. As vice president of Research at CA Veracode, he leads the team responsible for integrating security expertise into CA Veracode’s technology. Throughout his career, he has led projects breaking, building, and defending web applications and commercial software for some of the world’s largest companies. Chris is a frequent speaker at premier industry conferences, such as BlackHat, RSA, OWASP, and CanSecWest, where he has presented on a diverse range of application security topics, including cryptographic attacks, agile security, mobile application security, and security metrics.)