 

 

THREAT 
ANALYSIS 

LATEST CYBER ESPIONAGE 
MALWARE ATTACKS 
DRAGONFISH DELIVERS NEW FORM OF ELISE 
MALWARE TARGETING ASEAN DEFENCE 
MINISTERS’ MEETING AND ASSOCIATES 

Copyright © 2018 Accenture Security. All rights reserved. 

THREAT ANALYSIS 

 

 

The well-known threat group called DRAGONFISH or Lotus 
Blossom are distributing a new form of Elise malware 
targeting organizations for espionage purposes. The threat 
actors associated with DRAGONFISH have previously 
focused their campaigns on targets in Southeast Asia, 
specifically those located in countries near the South 
China Sea. These attacks have mainly targeted high-profile 
government, military and political institutions, but other 
victims include those operating in the education and 
telecommunication industries. iDefense analysts have 
identified a campaign likely to be targeting members of—
or those with affiliation or interest in—the ASEAN Defence 
Ministers’ Meeting (ADMM). 

This threat analysis provides security operations center (SOC) analysts and engineers 
with detailed information pertaining to the workings of the Elise malware family and 
the indicators of compromise (IoCs) to assist them in their own independent analyses. 
This threat analysis will help to inform organizations and support their decision 
making on how to better contain or mitigate the threat through monitoring or 
blocking. 
They may consider using the information to inform hunting activities for systems that 
may already have been compromised, or by using the IoCs by adding them to hunting 
lists or endpoint detection & response (EDR) solutions as well as to network- and host-
based backlists to detect and deny malware implantation—and command and control 
(C2) communication—or whatever mitigations they determine are most appropriate 
for their environments.  
Given the inherent nature of threat intelligence, it is based on information gathered 
and understood at a specific point in time. 

Copyright © 2018 Accenture Security. All rights reserved. 

2 

THREAT ANALYSIS 

 

TECHNICAL REPORT 

DESCRIPTION 

iDefense analysts have identified a campaign likely to be targeting members of or 
those with affiliation or interest in the ASEAN Defence Minister’s Meeting (ADMM). 
iDefense assesses with high confidence that this campaign is associated with the 
threat group DRAGONFISH (also known as Lotus Blossom and Spring Dragon). 

 

 

 

MALWARE ANALYSIS 

Knowledge of DRAGONFISH's tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) helps to 
better inform detection and response to attacks by this threat group. 

The sample iDefense identified is a malicious Microsoft Corp. Word document (see 
Exhibit 1) with the following properties: 

•  MD5: f12fc711529b48bcef52c5ca0a52335a 
•  Author: mary 
•  Last Modified by: mary 
•  Created Time Stamp: 2018:01:19 14:56:00 (Jan. 19, 2018, 2:56 p.m.) 
•  Last Modified Time Stamp: 2018:01:19 14:56:00 (JAn. 19, 2018, 2:56 p.m.) 

Copyright © 2018 Accenture Security. All rights reserved. 

3 

THREAT ANALYSIS 

 
Exhibit 1: Decoy Document 

The Word document, which includes information on ADMM-Plus members, has a 
malicious executable file embedded as an OLE object (see Exhibit 2). 

Exhibit 2: Original Source Path 

 

 

 

The embedded file named a.b is dropped to the %temp% folder once the Word 
document is opened and is executed by exploiting the CVE-2017-11882 vulnerability. 
The payload is consequently moved to 
\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Windows\Caches\ as a file named NavShExt.dll and the 
executable a.b is deleted. 

This file NavShExt.dll is a PE32 dynamic-link library (DLL), and the filename suggests 
that the malware author intended to disguise the file as a legitimate Symantec Corp. 
anti-virus component called the Norton Security Shell Extension Module. 

The DLL has the following properties: 

•  MD5 Hash: cd36bbd7f949cf017edba0e6aaadf28c 
•  Compile Time: 2018-01-12 17:59:58 (Jan. 12, 2018, 5:59 p.m.) 
•  Export Function: Setting 

Copyright © 2018 Accenture Security. All rights reserved. 

4 

THREAT ANALYSIS 

 
The malware performs the following set of actions: 

 

1.  Starts iexplore.exe (Internet Explorer) in a suspended state 

2.  Injects NavShExt.dll into the iexplore.exe process and calls the DLL 

export Setting function 

3.  The iexplore.exe process continues to run in the background 

4.  Creates a mutex named donotbotherme (see Exhibit 3) to avoid having 

duplicated executions 

5.  Creates a file named thumbcache_1CD60.db in 

AppData\Local\Microsoft\Windows\Explorer\ where the harvested data is 
stored 

6.  Sends data to and downloads files and commands from the designated C2 

server 

7.  Harvests extensive system information from the machine, such as the 

following: 
•  LAN and WAN IP addresses (for the latter, it uses the free IP address 

service ipaddress.com) 

Installed software list 

•  Proxy information 
• 
•  Process enumeration via tasklist 
•  List of all the files on the user’s desktop 

Exhibit 3: Mutex Creation 

 

Based on  the currently available intelligence we also believe the malware is capable 
of providing the attacker with a remote shell on the host and can completely uninstall 
itself. 

Execution debug messages are stored in the %temp% folder in a file named 
FXSAPIDebugLogFile.tmp. Example messages include Client Start!, indicating a 

Copyright © 2018 Accenture Security. All rights reserved. 

5 

THREAT ANALYSIS 

 

 
successful infection, or an error message such as [2018-1-25 13:35:22] Try All Addr 
Failed! Sleep For: 10.100000 Minutes!, indicating that the C2 sever cannot be reached 
and the malware will sleep for a fixed amount of time. 

Logs are encrypted using the following static AES key: 
Ss)4:WKsRr(3/VJrQq&2.UIqPp%1-THp. 

Of particular interest is an embedded, custom application in a .data section that is 
responsible for loading and executing executables and DLLs from inside the main 
binary. The application supports the following command-line options: 

• 
• 

runexe 1.exe /c command… 
rundll 1.dll, DllMain 

When attempting to find more information about this application, iDefense 
discovered a file with the MD5 hash cfa7954722d4277d26e96edc3289a4ce, which 
features the same application and was mentioned in a 2015 report titled Operation 
Lotus Blossom by the Unit42 team at partner organization Palo Alto Networks. 

Several observations detailed in this report on Elise variant C align with the findings 
disclosed above: 

•  Similar targeting of Southeast Asia 
•  Same export function name in the dropper DLL: Setting 
• 
•  Heavy anti-virtual-machine features 
•  Similar obfuscation techniques used to exfiltrate data to C2 server (using 

Identical custom application to load and execute EXEs or DLLs 

base64-encoded cookie values) 

In contrast to the earlier campaigns, debug paths are completely stripped. 
Persistence is achieved using the Run Registry key with the value name IAStorD: 

•  HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run\IAStorD 

As mentioned earlier, two hidden DLLs can be discovered that are additionally 
injected into iexplore.exe and have the export functions named DePatchEntry 
or EvilEntry. These DLLs provide additional loading and other anti-analysis 
functionalities. 

The malware attempts to spoof the host and query non-existing domains, such as the 
following: 

•  3qyo4o7.7r7i3[.]info 
•  dtdf5vu.nt7yq[.]info 
• 
•  38qmk6.0to9[.]info 
•  ubkv1t.ec0[.]com 

j.4tc3ldw.g9ml.www0[.]org 

Copyright © 2018 Accenture Security. All rights reserved. 

6 

THREAT ANALYSIS 

 

•  7g91xhp.envuy3[.]net 
• 
l.hovux.eln9wj7.7gpj[.]org 
•  w.7sytdjc.wroi.cxy[.]com 

This is likely done to throw off malware analysts or network administrators. The real 
C2 server, 103.236.150[.]14, is actually hardcoded (see Exhibit 4). 

Exhibit 4: Real C2 Server Hardcoded in the Malware 

 

 

 

Copyright © 2018 Accenture Security. All rights reserved. 

7 

THREAT ANALYSIS 

 
MITIGATION 

 

To mitigate the threat of the described campaign, security teams can consider 
blocking access to the C2 server 103.236.150[.]14 and, where applicable, ensure that 
the Microsoft Security Update KB2553204 is installed in order to patch the CVE-2017-
11882 vulnerability. 

For threat hunting, iDefense also suggests that analysts to look for the following 
artifacts: 

•  A value named IAStorD in the autorun key 
•  A file named FXSAPIDebugLogFile.tmp 
•  A mutex handle named donotbotherme 
• 

thumbcache_1CD60.db in AppData\Local\Microsoft\Windows\Explorer\ 

For further information regarding the Microsoft Security Update KB25533204, please 
visit:  

https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/2553204/description-of-the-security-
update-for-office-2010-november-14-2017   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Given the inherent nature of threat intelligence, the content contained in this alert is 
based on information gathered and understood at the time of its creation. It is subject 
to change.  

ACCENTURE PROVIDES THE INFORMATION ON AN “AS-IS” BASIS WITHOUT 
REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY AND ACCEPTS NO LIABILITY FOR ANY ACTION OR 
FAILURE TO ACT TAKEN IN RESPONSE TO THE INFORMATION CONTAINED OR 
REFERENCED IN THIS REPORT. 

Copyright © 2018 Accenture Security. All rights reserved. 

8 

THREAT ANALYSIS 

 
 

 

CONTACT US 
For additional mitigation steps and more detailed information, please reach out to 
your Accenture contact.  Where support is needed, Accenture Security can provide 
resources designed to mitigate risks and remediate gaps in ICS security programs. 

Kelly Bissell 
kelly.bissell@accenture.com   

Joshua Ray 
joshua.a.ray@accenture.com   

Uwe Kissman  
uwe.kissman@accenture.com   

Ryan LaSalle  
ryan.m.lasalle@accenture.com   

Gareth Russell  
gareth.russell@accenture.com 

 

Copyright © 2018 Accenture Security. All rights reserved. 

9 

 

ABOUT ACCENTURE 
Accenture is a leading global professional services company, providing a broad range of 
services and solutions in strategy, consulting, digital, technology and operations. Combining 
unmatched experience and specialized skills across more than 40 industries and all business 
functions—underpinned by the world’s largest delivery network—Accenture works at the 
intersection of business and technology to help clients improve their performance and create 
sustainable value for their stakeholders. With approximately 435,000 people serving clients in 
more than 120 countries, Accenture drives innovation to improve the way the world works and 
lives. Visit us at www.accenture.com 

ABOUT ACCENTURE SECURITY 
Accenture Security helps organizations build resilience from the inside out, so they can 
confidently focus on innovation and growth. Leveraging its global network of cybersecurity 
labs, deep industry understanding across client value chains and services that span the 
security lifecycle, Accenture protects organization’s valuable assets, end-to-end. With services 
that include strategy and risk management, cyber defense, digital identity, application 
security and managed security, Accenture enables businesses around the world to defend 
against known sophisticated threats, and the unknown. Follow us @AccentureSecure on 
Twitter or visit the Accenture Security blog. 

LEGAL NOTICE & DISCLAIMER: © 2018 Accenture. All rights reserved. Accenture, the Accenture logo, iDefense and other 
trademarks, service marks, and designs are registered or unregistered trademarks of Accenture and its subsidiaries in the 
United States and in foreign countries. All trademarks are properties of their respective owners. All materials are intended for 
the original recipient only. The reproduction and distribution of this material is forbidden without express written permission 
from iDefense. The opinions, statements, and assessments in this report are solely those of the individual author(s) and do not 
constitute legal advice, nor do they necessarily reflect the views of Accenture, its subsidiaries, or affiliates.  
Given the inherent nature of threat intelligence, the content contained in this alert is based on information gathered and 
understood at the time of its creation. It is subject to change.  
ACCENTURE PROVIDES THE INFORMATION ON AN “AS-IS” BASIS WITHOUT REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY AND ACCEPTS 
NO LIABILITY FOR ANY ACTION OR FAILURE TO ACT TAKEN IN RESPONSE TO THE INFORMATION CONTAINED OR 
REFERENCED IN THIS REPORT. 

 

 

