 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

This publication is a product of the NATO Cooperative Cyber Defence Centre of Excellence (the  Centre). It does not 
necessarily reflect the policy or the opinion of the Centre, NATO, any agency, or any government. The Centre may not 
be held responsible for any loss or harm arising from the use of information contained in this publication and is not 
responsible for the content of the external sources, including external websites referenced in this publication.  

Digital  or  hard  copies  of  this  publication  may  be  produced  for  internal  use  within  NATO  and  for  personal  or 
educational use when for non-profit and non-commercial purpose, provided that copies bear a full citation. 

www.ccdcoe.org  
publications@ccdcoe.org  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The NATO Cooperative Cyber Defence Centre of Excellence (NATO CCD COE) is a NATO-accredited knowledge hub, 
research institution, and training and exercise facility. The Tallinn-based international military organisation focuses 
on interdisciplinary applied research, as well as consultations, trainings and exercises in the field of cyber security. 

The  heart  of  the  Centre  is  a  diverse  group  of  international  experts,  including  legal  scholars,  policy  and  strategy 
specialists who join forces with technology researchers, all from military, government and industry backgrounds. 

Membership of the Centre is open to all Allies. As of September 2016, the Czech Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, 
Greece, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Poland, Slovakia, Spain, Turkey, the United Kingdom and 
the  United  States  have  signed  on  as  Sponsoring  Nations  (SNs)  of  the  Centre.  Austria  and  Finland  have  become 
Contributing Participants (CPs) – the status available for non-NATO nations. 

For more information on NATO CCD COE, visit the Centre’s website at http://www.ccdcoe.org. 

2 

 

The NATO CCD COE series on national organisational models for ensuring cyber security summarise national cyber 
security strategy objectives and outline the division of cyber security tasks and responsibilities between agencies. In 
particular, the reports give an overview of the mandate, tasks and competences of the relevant organisations and 
of coordination between them. The scope of the reports encompasses the mandates of political and strategic cyber 
security governance; national cyber incident management coordination; military cyber defence; and cyber aspects 
of crisis prevention and crisis management.  

 

 

 

Reports in this series 

National Cyber Security Organisation in Czech Republic  

National Cyber Security Organisation in Estonia 

National Cyber Security Organisation in France 

National Cyber Security Organisation in Hungary 

National Cyber Security Organisation in Italy 

National Cyber Security Organisation in Lithuania 

National Cyber Security Organisation in the Netherlands 

National Cyber Security Organisation in Slovakia 

National Cyber Security Organisation in Spain 

National Cyber Security Organisation in the United Kingdom 

National Cyber Security Organisation in the USA 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Series editor: Kadri Kaska (Researcher, NATO CCD COE) 

 

Information in this study was checked for accuracy as of August 2016.

3 

By Mikk Raud 

Visiting Researcher at the NATO CCD COE 

INTRODUCTION ..................................................................................................................................................... 5 

1.  CHINA’S CYBER BACKGROUND AND RELATED CHALLENGES .......................................................................... 6 

1.1. 
FREE INFORMATION AND FOREIGN TECHNOLOGIES SEEN AS THREATS ............................................................................ 6 
1.2. 
CHINESE VIEWS ON CONTROLLING CYBERSPACE ........................................................................................................ 7 
1.3. 
CHINA VS. THE WEST AND THE UNITED STATES ........................................................................................................ 8 
1.4.  UNDERSTANDING THE CHINESE CYBER DEFINITIONS ................................................................................................... 9 

2.  ASSEMBLING CHINA’S CYBER STRATEGY AND ITS MAIN GOALS ....................................................................10 

2.1. 

2.2. 

2.1.1. 
2.1.2. 
2.1.3. 

CHINA’S CIVILIAN DOCUMENTS ON INFORMATION SECURITY .................................................................................... 11 
Document 27: Opinions for Strengthening Information Security Assurance Work (2003) .................. 11 
National Medium and Long Term Science and Technology Development Plan  – A 15-Year Strategy 12 
State Council’s Information Office’s New Policy Opinion .................................................................... 13 
FORMULATING A NEW NATIONAL INFORMATION SECURITY STRATEGY ........................................................................ 14 

3.  CHINA’S STRATEGIC CYBER GOVERNANCE ....................................................................................................16 

CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT AGENCIES........................................................................................................................ 16 
3.1. 
3.2. 
STREAMLINING OF CYBER ADMINISTRATION ........................................................................................................... 18 
3.3.  MILITARY’S CYBER ACTIVITIES .............................................................................................................................. 19 
The Chinese military’s strategic thinking on cyber .............................................................................. 19 
Impact of reforms on People’s Liberation Army’s approach to cyber ................................................. 21 
General Staff Department’s 3rd Department ...................................................................................... 21 
General Staff Department’s 4th Department ...................................................................................... 23 
The newcomer: PLA Strategic Support Force....................................................................................... 24 
3.4.  HACKTIVIST UNITS AND CYBER MILITIA .................................................................................................................. 26 

3.3.1. 
3.3.2. 
3.3.3. 
3.3.4. 
3.3.5. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY .....................................................................................................................................................28 

ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS .......................................................................................................................34 

 

 

4 

Talking  about  the  unprecedented  success  story  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  (hereafter  simply  ‘China’)  has 
almost become a cliché. However, it is undeniable that China has developed into a key actor in world politics, and 
other states cannot overlook or ignore its opinion or intentions on whichever considered terrain. With its immense 
and growing influence over the whole planet, cyberspace is no exception.  

According to Internet Live Stats, the number of internet users has already surpassed 3.4 billion, with 721 million 
coming from China.1 Naturally, China is increasingly dependent on various cyber assets and the Chinese authorities 
have reacted accordingly. We have witnessed a growing emphasis on cyber security measures, as well as an increase 
in the country’s readiness to take advantage of the opportunities that the internet provides, and to respond to the 
threats it poses to national security. With the largest population in the world, China holds a sizeable pool of experts 
with potential value for the government and its cyber operations. 

Understanding  China’s  cyber  structure,  strategies  and  organisation  is  not  an  easy  task.  The  Chinese  have  not 
established an exhaustive approach to cyber issues in the form of a strategy clearly outlining the country’s cyber 
objectives  and  their  execution.  This  has  created  much  uncertainty  for  both  China’s  domestic  environment  and, 
understandably, outsiders for whom the complex hierarchies, command structures and various defence papers are 
very confusing. Even though the Chinese do not seem to mind a certain degree of mystery, a step suggesting their 
increasing desire to manage their cyber operations more efficiently can be seen in the recent creation of the Central 
Internet Security and Information Leading Group, for which Xi Jinping has taken personal responsibility to define 
China’s  cyber  strategy.  This  also  stands  as  a  good  example  of  how  the  Chinese  understand  cyber  as  something 
strongly  integrated  with  society,  and  do  not  separate  it  from  the  general  flow  of  governance.  Admittedly,  the 
challenges that originate from such a distinctive approach to cyber have great potential to affect the Western world’s 
activities in cyberspace for a number of reasons.  

First, the way in which the world’s biggest internet community is governed influences the overall development of 
the internet worldwide. Granting netizens the opportunity to become a part of the online world free from physical 
constraints, or restricting their access to information and using the internet as a tool against dissent are the two 
fundamentally different choices facing the Chinese government. As it has so far stuck to the second option, China’s 
participation  in  the  global  internet  community  has  been  greatly  hindered,  and  thus  countless  opportunities  for 
cooperation have been missed.  

Secondly,  there  is  significant  evidence  that  the  Chinese  government,  together  with  the  Chinese  military,  private 
corporations,  and  unaffiliated  citizens,  conduct  intrusions  against  major  Western  powers  as  well  as  in  the 
neighbouring region every day, targeting academia, industry and government facilities for the purpose of amassing 
technological secrets.2 For  example, the Chinese have, among other high-tech weapon system designs, obtained 
those of the F-35 stealth fighter – America’s most expensive military investment ever.3 The underlying purpose of 
these activities is to gain advantage in the economic, political and military fields, and often simply show the extensive 
harm they are capable of causing should the need arise.  

                                                                 
1 Internet Live Stats compiles data from six major reliable agencies, including the International Telecommunications Unit and 
the World Bank. See more at ‘China Internet Users.’ Internet Live Stats, 2016. Accessed 18 Aug. 2016. 
<http://www.internetlivestats.com/internet-users/china/>. Internet Live Stats compiles data from six major reliable agencies, 
including the International Telecommunications Unit and the World Bank. 
2 Richard Clarke, a former special advisor on cyber security to President George W. Bush, illustrates the situation rather 
comprehensively, believing the Chinese hacking to be unprecedented in the history of espionage: ‘Exabytes of data have been 
copied from universities, industrial labs, and government facilities. The secrets behind everything from pharmaceutical formulas 
to bioengineering designs, to nanotechnology, to weapons systems, to everyday industrial products have been taken by the 
People’s Liberation Army and by private hacking groups and given to China.’ Clarke, Richard A., and Robert K. Knake. Cyber War: 
The Next Threat to National Security and What to Do About It. Ecco, 2010, p. 59. 
3 For an overview of all publicly reported intrusions attributed to China from 2005 to 2013, see Lindsay, Jon R. and Tai Ming 
Cheung. ‘Chapter 3: From Exploitation to Innovation,’ pp. 58-61 in Lindsay, Jon R., Tai Ming Cheung, and Derek S. Reveron (eds) 
China and Cybersecurity: Espionage, Strategy and Politics in the Digital Domain. Oxford University Press, 2015. 

5 

While some experts suggest that China’s cyber units have so far ‘outmanned and outclassed’4 their adversaries, the 
West has actually demonstrated firm responses. For instance, several Chinese telecommunication companies such 
as  Huawei  have  been  banned  from  contracting  and  acquiring  any  broadband  network  providers  in  the  US  and 
Australia.5 It seems that whichever direction the Chinese offensive cyber capabilities develop, the West is unwilling 
to accept any growing danger to its private information, cyber infrastructure or security in general.6  

In order to establish a comprehensive understanding of China’s cyber attitude, it is of paramount importance to 
know its strengths and weaknesses. For that purpose, this paper aims to give readers a detailed overview of China’s 
cyber capabilities, related documents and strategies, and the general command structure  of its tactical execution 
layer. Importantly, the country’s distinct approach raises the necessity of introducing the general national strategic 
thinking and framework into which cyber falls. The paper acts as a comprehensive starting point for anyone aiming 
to get a foothold on affairs related to China and cyber. 

 

 

As with  most  states, China  is heavily  dependent  on technology, making the government  highly concerned about 
developments  regarding  the  internet  and  the  information  flow  that  it  generates.  The  Chinese  see  uncontrolled 
information as a threat to the regime, paying great efforts to obtain the economic gains that the internet provides, 
but  simultaneously  maintaining  political  control.7  It  is  believed  that,  for  the  Chinese,  the  whole  concept  of  the 
internet  is built around controlling information through real-time censorship,  constituting  a  completely  different 
view from that in the West.8 Indeed, ever since the internet became a publicly available communication platform in 
China, the question was not whether to control it, but rather how to control it.9 The most explicit example of such 
regulatory measures is of course the Great Firewall of China, which by monitoring all traffic in Chinese cyberspace 
enables the authorities to deny access to a variety of selected websites and disconnect all Chinese networks from 
the global internet network. 

Other  than  being  afraid  of  the  growth  of  internal  opposition  through  information,  the  government  is  also  very 
sensitive about foreign information systems. Despite local technology and telecom companies’ efforts to supply high 
quality products for domestic use, a large part of technology connected to Chinese networks still originates from the 
West. Chinese officials are convinced that these systems are equipped with Trojan horses and loopholes to  steal 
China’s national secrets and prevent its further economic upsurge.10 To counter these fears, the government has 

                                                                 
4 Hannas, William C., James C. Mulvenon, and Anna B. Puglisi. Chinese Industrial Espionage: Technology Acquisition and Military 
Modernization. Routledge, 2013. 
5 Stark, Jill. ‘US Follows Australia in Naming Huawei as a Possible Security Threat.’ The Sydney Morning Herald. 9 Oct. 2012. 
Accessed 18 Aug. 2016. <http://www.smh.com.au/it-pro/security-it/us-follows-australia-in-naming-huawei-as-a-possible-
security-threat-20121007-277ad.html>. 
6 The US National Security Agency (NSA) has itself hacked into computers belonging to Huawei and China Telecom, a fact that 
became public with the Snowden leaked documents evidencing the American worldwide online spying. See more at Sanger, 
David E., and Nicole Perlroth. ‘N.S.A. Breached Chinese Servers Seen as Security Threat.’ The New York Times. 22 Mar. 2014. 
Accessed 18 Aug. 2016. <http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/23/world/asia/nsa-breached-chinese-servers-seen-as-spy-
peril.html?_r=0>. 
7 Grauman, Brigid. Cyber-security: The Vexed Question of Global Rules. Report by Security & Defence Agenda, 2012, p. 55. 
8 David Bandurski, cited in Lococo, Edmond, and Keith Zhai. ‘China Seeks Global Internet Influence at CEO Forum on Canal 
Bank.’ Bloomberg Technology. 18 Nov. 2014. Accessed 18 Aug. 2016. <http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2014-11-
18/china-seeks-global-internet-influence-at-ceo-forum-on-canal-bank>. 
9 Creemers, Rogier. ‘Cyber-Leninism: History, Political Culture and the Internet in China.’ (2015): p.10. Draft available at 
<http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2589884>. 
10 Ernst, Dieter. Indigenous Innovation and Globalization – the Challenge for China’s Standardization Strategy. Report by the 
East-West Center, 2010, p. 33. 
<http://www.eastwestcenter.org/fileadmin/stored/pics/Ernst%20EWC%20NBR%20Report%20%2011%2015%2010.pdf>. 

6 

imposed heavy controls over the information security industry, deterring foreign investors, especially the Americans, 
from  seeking  business  opportunities  in  China.  Yet,  demonstrating  how  far  the  Chinese  still  are  from  the  desired 
technological  independence,  Beijing  was  not  particularly  pleased  when  in  early  2014,  Microsoft  decided  to  stop 
customer support for Windows XP, the operating system used extensively in Chinese government computers.  

 

Public  discussion  about  the  nature  and  future  of  cyberspace  was  brought  to  the  international  level  only  very 
recently.11 In 2013, the United  Nations Group of Governmental Experts, including the representative  from China, 
concluded that the UN Charter and international law are fully applicable to state behaviour in cyberspace, a position 
which has also been taken by NATO countries.12 However, this position impliedly assumes the use of already existing 
institutional framework, which, facilitated by ICANN, is more multi-stakeholder than intergovernmental. The latter 
would better allow each government to regulate the internet itself, the main premise of China’s strong belief in so-
called ‘cyber sovereignty’. 

China  has  introduced  its  alternative  position  through  the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organisation  (SCO)  in  the  UN 
General Assembly, together with Russia and several Central Asian countries, first in 2011, with a revised version in 
January 2015.13 A common line between the SCO countries is a belief in the primacy of the nation state, which should 
be carried over into cyberspace.14 According to a report by the US-China Security Review Commission, this allows 
the Chinese to dwell on two corollaries. Firstly, the users of cyberspace, both domestic and foreign citizens within a 
state’s territory, should be controlled by the host state, a clear contradiction of the Western position which supports 
a liberal cyberspace respecting human rights.15 In China’s political culture, maintaining social order is unquestionably 
more important than individual privacy.16 Secondly, China is particularly sensitive in exercising its right to sovereignty 
in cyberspace and does not want it to be interfered with by any other state or international organisation.17 Therefore, 
somewhat contradictory to its position regarding the UN report, China does not see international law as the main 
regulator of cyberspace, but prefers each state setting its own rules.18 China has also criticised the Tallinn Manual as 
an effort to manipulate cyberspace through law.19  

Another concern characterising China’s attitude towards general governance of cyberspace is its antipathy to the 
US. As many official statements by the Chinese press, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and academics have shown, 
China is concerned about the US using its status and influence as the world’s leading technology power to establish 
international rules and norms favourable to the US. Thus, China often justifies its actions in cyberspace as a response 
to hostile developments by the US military.20 A point further strengthening this understanding is the fact that ICANN 

                                                                 
11  When  talking  about  rules  in  the  internet,  it  is  necessary  to  distinguish  between  two  separate  concepts.  First,  ‘internet 
governance’ is a term for norms, rules and procedures that shape the use of the internet in general, and is facilitated by the 
Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN). Different from ‘Internet governance’ is the framework of how a 
sovereign state behaves in cyberspace.  
12 Group of Governmental Experts on Developments in the Field of Information and Telecommunications in the Context of 
International Security. Report of the United Nations General Assembly, 2013. 
<http://www.un.org/ga/search/view_doc.asp?symbol=A/68/98>, and North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Cyber Defence 
Pledge. 8 July 2016. Accessed 18 Aug. 2016. <http://www.nato.int/cps/en/natohq/official_texts_133177.htm>. 
13 International Code of Conduct for Information Security. Report of the United Nations General Assembly, 2015. 
<https://ccdcoe.org/sites/default/files/documents/UN-150113-CodeOfConduct.pdf>.  
14 Grauman, 2012, p. 56. 
15 Hsu, Kimberly, and Craig Murray. China and International Law in Cyberspace. Report by the U.S.-China Economic and Security 
Review Commission, 2014, p. 2. 
16 Grauman, 2012, p. 56. 
17 Hsu and Murray, 2014, p. 2. For an example of the Chinese position on these issues, see ‘China’s Perspective on Building a 
Peaceful, Secure, Open and Cooperative Cyberspace.’ UNIDIR Conference. 10 Feb. 2014. Accessed 24 Aug. 2016. 
<http://www.unidir.ch/files/conferences/pdfs/a-cyber-code-of-conduct-the-best-vehicle-for-progress-en-1-963.pdf>. 
18 Segal, Adam. ‘The Deepening Divide in U.S.-China Cyber Relations.’ The National Interest. 29 Oct. 2014. Accessed 18 Aug. 
2016. <http://nationalinterest.org/blog/the-buzz/the-deepening-divide-us-china-cyber-relations-11568>. 
19 The Tallinn Manual disagrees with any call for new regulations to govern cyberspace. 
20 Hsu and Murray, 2014, p. 1.  

7 

is located in Los Angeles and is under US jurisdiction, even though it is independent of the US government. Moreover, 
as the US is a founding member of the majority of the world’s international institutions, China believes it to have 
exceptional control over cyberspace and its governing principles. For example, during the Budapest Conference on 
Cyberspace in 2012, the official statement of the Chinese representative included points that criticised the US for 
militarising cyberspace and unfairly allocating cyber resources among only developed states to maintain its control.21 
This is why several Chinese experts believe China has a key role in promoting a new, ‘common and inclusive global 
internet governance’22 model that redistributes digital resources and governance rights more equitably. Admittedly, 
such a model would probably lack legitimacy in the eyes of a large part of the international community.23 

 

The  different  understandings  of  internet  governance  can  be  seen  as  part  of  the  general  existential  competition 
between China and the West, which often asks whether China will continue growing as the peaceful lion as it claims, 
or whether conflict with the liberal democratic ideologies is bound to occur. As the US undeniably has the greatest 
economic and military capabilities among the West, it has taken the lead in containing China’s growth. Whereas 
physical confrontation has so far been avoided, the situation is certainly fiercer in cyberspace, which both the US 
Department of Defense (DoD) and the PLA have begun to view as a new domain of conflict, seeing cyber espionage 
and malicious activities from both parties, who refuse to admit their state-level involvement and rather blame their 
opponent.24 China considers itself equal with the US when it comes to comparing the two countries’ size, power and 
influence in the online field, which creates tensions over who should dominate the digital world.25 Understandably, 
such tensions frustrate cooperative interaction not only in the cyber domain, but also in the economic and political 
fields.  

After the US indicted five PLA officers for stealing data from American corporations in May 2014,26 many saw the 
cyber-agreement between President Xi and President Obama in September 2015 as a positive development. Both 
Presidents pledged not to knowingly conduct or support cyber theft, including that of intellectual property, trade 
secrets, or confidential business information in general.27 Some cyber security firms have indeed noted a reduced 
number of attacks against  American businesses, but  this  might be due to improved tactics  making the attackers 
harder to detect, or simply a turn to new, uninformed targets in other countries, and not because of any deep respect 
for the agreement.28 FireEye’s recent report states that the China-based units’ operations against US companies saw 
a decline in frequency a year before the Xi-Obama agreement and have since become more focused and calculated 

                                                                 
21 Hurwitz, Roger. ‘A Scene from the Road to Cyber Governance: The Budapest Cyberspace Conference.’ MUNK School of Global 
Affairs. 26 Feb. 2013. Accessed 19 Aug. 2016. <http://www.cyberdialogue.ca/2013/02/a-scene-from-the-road-to-cyber-
governance-the-budapest-cyberspace-conference/>. 
22 Jiang, Li, Zhang Xiaolan, and Yu Feibao. ‘Deadlock in International Cooperation Regarding Cyber Security and Its 
Solutions.’ Xiandai Guoji Guanxi - Contemporary International Relations 9 (2013), cited in Liffran, Camille. ‘Chinese Perspectives 
on Cyber Security and International Relations.’ China's Expanding Cyberspace (2014): pp. 5-7. <http://www.ecfr.eu/page/-
/ChinaAnalysisEng_June2014.pdf>. 
23 The subject of a broader-based internet governance model was brought up at the World Conference on International 
Telecommunications in 2012. The outcome was a clear split between nations favouring the introduction of a multilateral 
governance model (most of the so-called BRICS countries, with the exception of India, and developing countries) and those 
opposed to it, including the USA, EU member states, Australia and Japan.  
24 Lindsay, Jon. China and Cybersecurity: Political, Economic, and Strategic Dimensions. Report by the University of California 
Institute on Global Conflict and Cooperation, 2012, p. 1. <https://www.usnwc.edu/Academics/Faculty/Derek-
Reveron/Documents/China-and-Cybersecurity-Workshop-Report-final.aspx>. 
25 Cyrus Mewawalla, cited in Lococo and Zhai, 2014. 
26 This was an act of seemingly no great significance, but at the time conveyed a highly symbolic meaning about the countries’ 
bilateral relations in the cyber field in general. See more at Tiezzi, Shannon. ‘US Indicts 5 PLA Officers For Hacking, Economic 
Espionage.’ The Diplomat. 20 May 2014. Accessed 19 Aug. 2016. <http://thediplomat.com/2014/05/us-indicts-5-pla-officers-
for-hacking-economic-espionage/>.  
27 ‘The Obama-Xi Cyber Mirage.’ The Wall Street Journal. 27 Sept. 2015. Accessed 19 Aug. 2016. 
<http://www.wsj.com/articles/the-obama-xi-cyber-mirage-1443387248>. 
28 Harold, Scott Warren. ‘The U.S.-China Cyber Agreement: A Good First Step.’ RAND Corporation. July 2016. Accessed 19 Aug. 
2016. <http://www.rand.org/blog/2016/08/the-us-china-cyber-agreement-a-good-first-step.html>. 

8 

and  have  maintained  their  level  of  success.  The  report  attributes  such  changes  to  military  and  political  changes 
within China, the frequent exposure of Chinese hackers, as well as the pressure and threat of sanctions from the 
US.29 Nevertheless, the overall situation has remained fairly static and therefore the Xi-Obama agreement should 
not be seen as a turning point.  

It is essential to note that the foundation of such behaviour, as well as Chinese thinking on asymmetric warfare in 
general and particularly on cyber-war, was laid down in Unrestricted Warfare – a book written by two PLA colonels 
Qiao  Liang  and  Wang  Xiangsui  in  1999  to  provide  a  strategy  of  how  China  as  a  weaker  country  could  defeat  a 
technologically superior foe outside the scope of using hard military power. Part of the American media irresponsibly 
depicted the book a grand strategy to destroy the US due to its precise scrutiny of the American military. Indeed, 
the colonels identified the US military’s main weakness as its dependence on ICT-networked systems through which 
the  Chinese  could  obtain  an  asymmetric  advantage.30  According  to  SIPRI’s  database,  at  the  time  of  the  book’s 
publication, the difference in the two countries’ military expenditure was about 15-fold. Even though the gap has 
closed significantly, the US defence budget is still around three times that of China.31 Therefore, if the front door 
remains closed, the smart player will try to sneak in through the back door or a window. That is exactly what the 
Chinese  strategy  is  about  –  knowing  that  even  with  wholesale  modernisation,  it  will  not  be  the  equal  of  the  US 
military for decades, and so China is ready to win any confrontation without physical battles by using efficient and 
overwhelming cyber-attacks.32  

However, even though the book has predominantly been characterised as a plan to defeat the US, it really should 
be  perceived  as  an  opportunity  to  understand  China’s  different  operational  thinking  on  the  power  struggle  in 
general. This is something that needs to be noticed and learned not only by the US, but also by other Western powers 
if they want to be on par with China in the cyber race. Colonels Qiao and Wang noted that it is vital to recognise that 
the battlefields in future wars will be traditionally non-war spheres like cyberspace, which strongly affect national 
security.33 

 

In looking into Chinese cyber developments, one should also be aware of their dissimilar terminology for cyber as 
compared to the North-Atlantic area.34 Efforts have been made to reconcile the mismatches, but these continue to 
be met by a remarkable lack of enthusiasm. What can be done for the purpose of this research is to explain the most 
significant differences.  

To begin with, the Chinese do not use the word cyber as extensively as the West. They perceive everything related 
to cyber developments as part  of a  broader transformation from an industrial society to an information society, 
referring to the process as informationisation or informatisation (the latter is normally used in translations and has 

                                                                 
29 Red Line Drawn: China Recalculates Its Use of Cyber Espionage. Report by FireEye, 2016, pp. 12, 15. 
<https://www.fireeye.com/content/dam/fireeye-www/current-threats/pdfs/rpt-china-espionage.pdf>. 
30 Qiao, Liang, and Wang Xiangsui. Unrestricted Warfare. PLA Literature and Arts House, 1999. Unofficial translation of the book 
is available at Cryptome’s website at: <http://www.cryptome.org/cuw.htm>. 
31 ‘SIPRI Military Expenditure Database.’ SIPRI. 2016. Accessed 19 Aug. 2016. 
<http://www.sipri.org/research/armaments/milex/milex_database>. 
32 Clarke and Knake , 2010, p. 53. 
33 Qiao and Wang , 1999, pp. 144-145, cited in Thomas, Timothy L. The Dragon's Quantum Leap. Foreign Military Studies Office, 
2009, p. 27. 
34 As Keir Giles and William Hagestad point out in their comprehensive paper on English, Chinese and Russian mismatching 
cyber definitions, the common disparities need to be removed to achieve a mutual understanding on governing cyberspace. It 
is easier to accept the current situation, but a better solution may exist in composing an international cyber lexicon that 
addresses all the relevant terms. This, however, will be a tremendous challenge due to the opposition of China and other 
alternative players like Russia, who find it more appealing to seek cooperation among themselves and other like-minded 
countries instead of engaging into a constructive dialogue with the US-led English-speaking countries. See more at: Giles, Keir, 
and William Hagestad II. Divided by a Common Language: Cyber Definitions in Chinese, Russian and English. Proceedings of 5th 
International Conference on Cyber Conflict, Tallinn. 2013. NATO CCDCOE Publications. 
<https://ccdcoe.org/publications/2013proceedings/d3r1s1_giles.pdf>. 

9 

wider use).35 Similarly, while the West classifies cyberspace as the global domain covering the use of electronics, 
interdependent  networks  of 
internet,  and  other 
telecommunication networks and data,36 the Chinese term closest to what would translate as cyberspace merely 
entails the necessary components of a connected device and actions related to using it.37 For the Chinese, cyberspace 
is  thus  only  a  subset  of  information  space  –  the  landscape  for  the  largest  scale  communication  to  the  world’s 
population, which includes human information processing and cognitive space.38  

information  technology 

infrastructure 

including  the 

It is also important to distinguish between cyber security and information security. The West, including the NATO 
allies, sees cyber security as the security of computer and information systems as physical and logical entities, and 
information assurance or information security as referring to security of the content. The Chinese, however, view 
both  the  information  systems  and  the  content  of  information  as  integral  and  connected  parts  of  information 
security.39 This holistic understanding thus extends the use of the term from purely ICT-related issues to mental 
aspects and explains why the Chinese government’s approach to information security has been control-seeking and 
restrictive.  Likewise,  the  Chinese  have  adopted  information  warfare  as  a  distinct,  yet  integrated  and  discrete 
discipline, which is incompatible with the Western view, which has recently been dividing the concept into smaller 
and  separate  disciplines,  such  as  psychological  operations  and  strategic  communications.  The  Chinese  use  cyber 
warfare only when describing Western countries and their cyber operations.40 

It would be a major challenge to have each player adopt  a single lexicon, but as long as one understands what is 
behind the varying definitions, it will become easier to evaluate cyber relationships between China and the West. In 
this paper, unless specifically referring to a Chinese initiative or particular concept, cyber and its derivations should 
be read in the conventional Western understanding. However, dissimilar terminology is certainly not the hardest of 
the  obstacles  on  the  way  to  elaborating  sophisticated  cyber  cooperation  between  China  and  the  West.  China’s 
notion of sovereignty and independence has restrained it from considering Western points of view and international 
law’s efficiency in cyberspace. Reluctant to  adopt the US-led positions, the Chinese prefer to control cyberspace 
through its government and military, as opposed to the West which prefers a liberal environment, giving space to 
individuals and private corporations. Having analysed China’s previous behaviour and firmly held attitudes, it seems 
unlikely that its stance will see a significant change any time soon. Therefore, instead of fighting the red dragon in 
the dark  and  without  much success, it  might  be  more useful to get  to know her first.  However, it is a  large  and 
complicated  task  due to  continuing uncertainties that are  not  only a  problem for the outsiders, but  also for the 
Chinese themselves.  

 

In 1999, colonels Qiao and Wang presented dependence on ICT-networks as the main weakness of the US military. 
Today,  the  PLA  has  reached  a  point  where  its  reliance  on  information  technology  is  no  less  than  that  of  the 
Americans. At the same time, cyber security is also concerned with industrial and civilian developments where public 
and  private  sector  actors’  interests  often  mismatch,  making  it  difficult  to  implement  a  streamlined  approach. 
Logically enough, cyber security has become one of the priorities for both the PLA and the  Chinese government, 
which  has  taken  various  steps  to  address  the  challenges  of  legal  loopholes,  incomplete  institutions,  and 

                                                                 
35 Zhao, Xiaofan. ‘Practice and Strategy of Informatization in China.’ State Council Informatization Office Department of IT 
Application Promotion. Shanghai. 18 Oct. 2006. 
<http://unpan1.un.org/intradoc/groups/public/documents/APCITY/UNPAN025040.pdf>. 
36 ‘Cyberspace.’ Defense Technical Information Center of the US Department of Defense. Accessed 19 Aug. 2016. 
<http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/dod_dictionary/data/c/10160.html>. 
37 Giles and Hagestad , 2013, p. 7. 
38 Ibid. 
39 Thomas, Timothy L. ‘Information Security Thinking: A Comparison of U.S., Russian, And Chinese Concepts.’ Foreign Military 
Studies Office Publications. July 2001. Accessed 19 Aug. 2016. <http://fmso.leavenworth.army.mil/documents/infosecu.htm>. 
40 Giles and Hagestad, 2013, p. 9. 

10 

unsatisfactory education among the public.41 As a bystander, it is not easy to understand what exactly China’s cyber 
policies are built on, as rather than a single official document systematically listing out its cyber strategy, the policies 
derive from several key founding documents that have been adopted over time and have been most influential in 
policy-making in the cyber sphere. However, analysing these together allows gaining a rather sharp picture of China’s 
overall  position  in  cyberspace.  Even  though  many  of  the adopted  initiatives  have  seen  only  limited  success,  this 
chapter will shed light on the most important documents together with their main content and goals. It will conclude 
by analysing China’s new strategic direction taken after establishing the Central Leading Small Group for Internet 
Security and Informatisation in February 2014. 

 

Prior to establishing China’s national civilian cyber security plan, referred to as Document 27, several working groups 
had  touched  upon  related  issues.  However,  lack  of  coordination  and  constant  restructuring  have  continuously 
caused much uncertainty for all the players. A national-level focus on information technology began in 1986 with 
the establishment of the State Economic Information Management Leading Small Group, and continued in 1999 and 
2001 with the establishment and re-establishment of the State Informatisation Leading Group (SILG). In 2003, the 
State Network and Information Security Coordination Small Group (SNISCSG) was created as a sub-group under SILG, 
chaired  by  the  current  Premier  Li  Keqiang.  The  objectives  for  these  three  groups  were  to  develop  indigenous 
information technologies and place them into a  national security context.42 China’s  tenth  Five-Year Plan of 2001 
prioritised developing domestic information security infrastructure and initiating large-scale investments to both 
state-sponsored  and  private  IT-firms,  which  were  to  focus  on  anti-malware  protection  and  general  internet 
security.43 In the early 2000s, ICT development received attention from both President Jiang Zemin and President 
Hu Jintao who started to talk about national security and economic security as an indivisible pair, hence promoting 
the need to ‘leapfrog’ over the competitors in order to turn China’s historical disadvantages into strengths through 
innovative development.44  

 

In  2003,  SNISCSG  issued  Document  27,  which  implemented  major  cyber  security  related  policies  and  national 
strategies,  including  disaster  recovery,  incident  management  and  e-government  security  plans.45  The  initially 
classified Document 27’s persisting idea was the concept of ‘active defence’,46 drawing various policies for protecting 
critical infrastructure, enhancing encryptions and dynamic monitoring, improving indigenous innovation, and also 
touching upon cyber security’s leadership, better coordination and funding. Document 27 was helpful in formulating 
necessary policies, but the dismissal of SNISCSG in 2008 left China’s civilian cyber security disorganised, leading to 
various separate, unaligned policy initiatives from different bodies. Even though SNISCSG was reconstituted in 2009, 
no  open  records  of  its  meetings  are  available  and  various  ministries  have  been  assigned  the  responsibilities  to 

                                                                 
41 Li, Yuxiao. ‘Cyberspace Security and International Cooperation in China,’ p.4 in Lindsay, 2012. 
42 Wang, Yukai, ‘Zhongyang wangluo anquan yu xinxihua lingdao xiaozu de youlai ji qi yinxiang (The Origins and Influence of the 
Central Network Security and Informatisation Leading Small Group),’ Zhongguo Gongchandang Xinwen Wang (Communist Party 
of China News Network), 3 Mar. 2014. <http://theory. people.com.cn/n/2014/0303/c40531-24510897.html>, cited in Chang, 
Amy. Warring State: China’s Cybersecurity Strategy. Report by the Center for a New American Security, 2014, p. 16. 
<http://www.cnas.org/sites/default/files/publications-pdf/CNAS_WarringState_Chang_report_010615.pdf>.  
43 ‘China: Summary of the Tenth Five-Year Plan (2001-2005) – Information Industry’. Available at 
<http://unpan1.un.org/intradoc/groups/public/documents/apcity/unpan022769.pdf>. 
44 Jiang, Zemin. ‘Lun zhongguo xinxi jishu chanye fazhan (On China’s Information Technology Industry Development),’ Xinhua, 
22 Apr. 2009. <http://news.xinhuanet.com/newscenter/2009-04/22/content_11232665_1.htm.>, cited in Chang, 2014, p. 16. 
45 Li, 2012, p. 5. 
46 ‘Active defence’ in Chinese understanding is based on Mao Zedong’s idea of attacking only after receiving an attack. 
Explained in Blasko, Dennis J. ‘Chapter 3: The Evolution of Core Concepts: People’s War, Active Defense, and Offshore Defense,’ 
in Kamphausen, Roy, David Lai, and Travis Tanner (eds). Assessing the People’s Liberation Army in the Hu Jintao Era, Strategic 
Studies Institute, 2014, p. 81, cited in Chang, 2014, p. 20. 

11 

implement Document 27’s strategies.47 Materials in English about Document 27 are limited, and therefore the exact 
directions on how and through which means the strategies were to be executed also remain unclear.  

 

Since February 2006, all information security developments and related policies can in one way or another be linked 
to China’s 15-year grand strategy for future innovation. Issued by the State Council, it is more precisely entitled the 
‘The National Programme for the Development  of Science and Technology in the Medium and Long Term 2006-
2020’.  Dieter  Ernst  from  the  East-West  Centre  considers  this  document  a  cornerstone  to  China’s  overall 
standardisation strategy, which consists of various legal documents and policy initiatives. He also believes that the 
strategy should be analysed in a  broader context with China’s goal to level up with the  Western life quality and 
income level, not only when talking about technology or cyberspace. In order to achieve that goal, instead of merely 
accepting  the  current  standards,  the  government  wants  to  become  a  lead  shaper,  or  at  least  a  co-shaper,  of 
international  standards  through  innovation.48  Accordingly,  the  document  lists  China’s  goals  for  technological 
indigenous innovation and recognises the need for increased investment in research and development.  

Other research49 suggests that the plan reflects China’s resolve to overcome domestic,  social and environmental 
issues through technological innovation, while continuing with the firm understanding that only the government can 
drive such innovation, guiding enterprises and the business sector which will execute the strategies. Perhaps the 
most important aspect for the international community is Beijing’s strong determination to loosen ties with foreign 
innovation firms and set the foundation for a truly independent base of knowledge. Concerns over the possibly  of 
an  emergent  ‘techno-nationalism’  seem  therefore  justified.  The  plan  calls  for  China  not  to  obtain  any  ‘core 
technologies  in  key  fields  that  affect  the  lifeblood  of  the  national  economy  and  national  security’  from  abroad, 
including  next-generation  internet  technologies,  digitally  controlled  machine  tools,  and  high-resolution  earth 
observation systems.50 

In order to deliver this, the government has increased R&D expenditure  which  will rise to 2.5% of GDP by 2020. 
While it is believed that China will have overtaken the US by 2020,51 estimated figures for China in 2016 remain 
around 2%, or $396.3 billion, while those of the US are 2.77% and $514 billion, still maintaining a significant gap 
between the two.52 Even though China’s figures show an almost two-fold increase from $213.4 in 201053, they need 
to be taken with a degree of scepticism, as large part of the budget is spent on developing infrastructure, rather 
than on scientific research. Nevertheless, Chinese researchers and enterprises do have increasingly more incentives 
and  support  to  develop  intellectual  property,  fulfilling  the  government’s  wish  to  reduce  dependence  on  foreign 
technologies.  Despite  good  intentions,  such  policies  may  actually  amplify  industrial  espionage,  as  many  local 
businesses lack  the  required  skills and thus acquire the needed technology from abroad and simply modify it as 
necessary,  often  illegally.54  Here,  one  can  find  another  controversy:  a  part  of  the  Chinese  understanding  of 
‘indigenous’  highlights  producing  original  innovations  such  as  new  products  and  services.55  This  seemingly 

                                                                 
47 Li, 2012, p. 6. 
48 Ernst, 2010, p. 96.  
49 Swedish Institute for Growth Policy Studies has conducted one of the most comprehensive studies on the 15-year plan and its 
implications. See more at Serger, Sylvia Schwaag, and Magnus Breidne. ‘China’s Fifteen-Year Plan for Science and Technology: 
An Assessment.’ Asia Policy 4 (2007): 135-64. <http://docplayer.net/191328-China-s-fifteen-year-plan-for-science-and-
technology-an-assessment.html>. 
50 Ernst, 2010, p. 24. 
51 ‘China Headed to Overtake EU, US in Science & Technology Spending, OECD Says.’ OECD. 12 Nov. 2014. Accessed 22 Aug. 
2016. <http://www.oecd.org/newsroom/china-headed-to-overtake-eu-us-in-science-technology-spending.htm>.  
52 2016 Global R&D Funding Forecast. Report by Industrial Research Institute, 2016. 
<https://www.iriweb.org/sites/default/files/2016GlobalR%26DFundingForecast_2.pdf>. 
53 ‘Gross Domestic Spending on R&D.’ OECD Data. 2016. Accessed 22 Aug. 2016. <https://data.oecd.org/rd/gross-domestic-
spending-on-r-d.htm>. 
54 Suttmeier, Richard P., ‘Information Security and the Dynamics of Innovation,’ p. 12 in Lindsay, 2012. 
55 Ernst, 2010, p. 25. 

12 

contradicts the purpose of Chinese cyber espionage, which allows the perpetrators to remain far from originality 
and rely instead on already established models. 

The  15-year  strategy  does  not  address  any  particularly  military  related  goals  or  concerns.  Its  further  aim  is  to 
prioritise energy, water supply and environmental technologies together, and to recognise that a better position on 
intellectual property rights would also strengthen China’s general competitiveness in the world markets.56 However, 
Timothy Thomas has brought out the plan’s aspects that could in some ways be associated with enhancing China’s 
capabilities in the offensive side, considering the strategy a counterpart to the American National Military Strategy 
for Cyberspace Operations.57 One interpretation of the strategy’s goal would therefore be the desire to secure the 
home  front  before  assaulting  other  countries.  Indeed,  given  the  intertwined  nature  of  digital  world,  civilian 
cyberspace  is  certainly  the  most  vulnerable  target  and  would  suffer  the  most  harm  if  successfully  attacked.  By 
contrast, Dieter Ernst believes  that the crux of this plan remains how to execute the key objective of indigenous 
innovation  while  becoming  more  and  more  integrated  into  global  corporate  production  networks,  often  led  by 
Western ideals.58  

While  the  15-year  strategy  has  initiated  the  improvement  of  China’s  innovation  system,  its  success  depends  on 
reinforcing  open  markets  and  international  linkages  between  China’s  technology  and  global  standards,  while 
executing its domestic innovation and thus creating a ‘two-track’ approach.59 Indeed, China’s technology giants such 
as  Huawei  and  Xiaomi  are  gradually  entering  the  world  markets,  but  the  opposite  direction  allowing  foreign 
technology  firms  to  trade  in  China  is  still  restricted.  For  example,  the  extensive  ‘Multi-Level  Protection  Scheme’ 
introduced in 2007 intended to protect national security through  prohibiting  foreign companies from  selling any 
core products to the government, banking, transportation, and other critical infrastructure companies, and the 2010 
‘Compulsory Certification for Information Security Scheme’ required that foreign companies wishing to sell to the 
Chinese government must give their products’ intellectual property rights to the government. A continuation to that 
trend in February 2015 saw the beginning of a ‘cyber security new regime’ which assumes that all foreign technology 
firms  supplying  Chinese  banks  might  be  required  to  share  their  source  code  and  even  include  back  doors  into 
hardware  and  software.60  The  attention  that  everything  related  to  cyberspace  and  information  technology  is 
continuously receiving shows that the Chinese have not given up their ambitions.  

 

In July 2012, the State Council’s Information Office (SCIO) issued a New Policy Opinion (NPO), translated as ‘The State 
Council vigorously promotes informatisation development and offers several opinions on conscientiously protecting 
information security’.61 Even though released nearly a decade after Document 27 and more than half a decade after 
the 15-year strategy, its overall concerns remain the same, showing that not all goals have been met. It persistently 
notes China’s exposure to urgent challenges in international competition over the control, use and acquisition of 
information. More precisely, the disparity between the West and China in digital infrastructure, inefficient exchange 
of information between government and industry, poor cyber security planning, inadequate defence capabilities, 
and a continuously large share of control over core technologies by foreigners attract the most attention. 62 Unlike 
previous  documents,  the  NPO  connects  developments  in  information  security  to  people’s  economic  and  social 

                                                                 
56 Serger and Breidne, 2007, p. 145. 
57 Thomas, Timothy L. ‘Chapter 20: Nation-State Cyber Strategies: Examples from China and Russia,’ in Kramer, Franklin D., 
Stuart H. Starr, and Larry K. Wentz (eds) Cyberpower and National Security, National Defense University Press and Potomac 
Books Inc., 2009. Accessed via <http://ctnsp.dodlive.mil/files/2014/03/Cyberpower-I-Chap-20.pdf>. 
58 Ernst, 2010, p. 1. 
59 Ibid., p. 26.  
60 Segal, Adam. ‘What to Do About China’s New Cybersecurity Regulations?’ Council on Foreign Relations. 2 Feb. 2015. Accessed 
22 Aug. 2016. <http://blogs.cfr.org/cyber/2015/02/02/what-to-do-about-chinas-new-cybersecurity-regulations/>. 
61 The full text of the NPO in Chinese is available at <http://politics.gmw.cn/2012-07/17/content_4571519.htm>.  
62 Segal, Adam. ‘China Moves Forward on Cybersecurity Policy.’ Council on Foreign Relations. 24 July 2012. Accessed 22 Aug. 
2016. <http://blogs.cfr.org/asia/2012/07/24/china-moves-forward-on-cybersecurity-policy/>.  

13 

improvement. This shows an expansion from ‘safeguarding national security information’ to ‘promoting stable and 
rapid economic development and social harmony and stability’. 63  

Giles and Hagestad have distilled the NPO’s four policy mandates, which  like the previously analysed documents 
focus on civil cyber defence: 

 

 

 

 

Firstly, the NPO places strong emphasis on the security of all critical information systems and infrastructure, 
especially focusing on information networks. This can be interpreted as an order, rather than guidance, on 
what  the  policymakers  must  protect  –  the  internet,  radio  networks  and  private  telecommunications 
systems, as well as information networks related to finance, energy and transportation. Its clear goal is to 
secure those industries where a cyber attack would cause tremendous harm to China’s economy.64  

Secondly, the NPO seeks to strengthen the governmental and classified information security systems, which 
are  often  attractive  targets for hacktivists like Anonymous. For  execution, the State Council expects the 
government  agencies  to  reduce  their  internet  connectedness  and  enhance  information  security  and 
confidentiality protection monitoring by establishing a hierarchical system to protect classified information 
systems.65  

Thirdly, the NPO seeks to increase protection of industrial control systems of facilities such as oil and gas 
pipelines, nuclear and power infrastructures, as well as transportation and urban facilities, all invoking the 
memory  of  Stuxnet.  This  should  be  achieved  through  strengthening  regulations  and  conducting  more 
frequent security checks and risk assessments.66  

Finally,  the  NPO  turns  to  safeguarding  Chinese  citizens’  personal  information,  noting  its  significance  in 
achieving the general welfare of the country and thus promising protection of demographic, geographical 
or  similarly  sensitive  data.67  This  step  can  be  considered  a  countermove  to  an  attack  in  2012  which 
compromised millions of users’ data on an opinion forum, Tianya, and a retail site, 360buy.com.68  

The NPO is certainly a very comprehensive document, which covers the majority of essential areas of cyber security. 
The  State  Council’s  recommendations  indicate  the  main  weaknesses  of  China’s  information  security  model,  and 
point  out  the  increased  vulnerabilities  from  growing  dependence  on  the  internet.  Continuing  hostility  towards 
foreign technologies also suggests that related trade barriers will not be abolished in the near future. However, as 
an intriguing point in light of President Xi’s anti-corruption campaign, the NPO does not seem to address corruption, 
which  is  widespread  within  the  technology  industry.  As  the  crackdown  has  not  proven  fully  successful,  the 
government  could  think  of  rewarding  legitimate  officials  and  entrepreneurs  to  prevent  dishonest  players  from 
compromising  the  industry’s  development.  Overall,  the  NPO  indicates  that  information  security  had,  by  2012, 
already become one of the government’s priorities.  

 

The analysis of these documents indicates that China’s main information security concerns have remained rather 
similar throughout the years. Guided by these principles, 2014 was finally considered a year of breakthrough towards 
a  better  regulated  cyberspace.  The  establishment  of  the  Central  Leading  Small  Group  for  Internet  Security  and 
Informatisation on 27 February 2014 shows President Xi’s personal commitment, as he is the first party head to chair 

                                                                 
63 Xue Ruihan, ‘Jianli jianqian guojia wangluo he xinxi anquan chang xiao jizhi (Establish and improve the national network and 
information security long-term mechanisms),’ Renmin Wang (People’s Daily Online), 17 Apr. 2014, 
<http://leaders.people.com.cn/n/2014/0417/c347621- 24909496.html>, cited in Chang, 2014, p. 17. 
64 Gu, Fa, ‘State Council vigorously promotes the development of information technology and to effectively protect the 
information security.’ 2012, cited in Giles and Hagestad, 2013, p. 12. 
65 Ibid, p. 13. 
66 Ibid. 
67 Ibid. 
68 Zhu, Yishi. ‘Hackers Find Holes Behind the Great Firewall.’ Hackers Find Holes Behind the Great Firewall. 21 Jan. 2012. 
Accessed 22 Aug. 2016. <http://english.caixin.com/2012-01-21/100350690.html>.  

14 

a leading small group related to information management.69 When explaining the necessity of the new body, Xi has 
pointed out China’s need to catch up with the  West in innovation, and further developed his argument  that  ‘no 
internet safety means no national security and no informatisation means no modernization’.70 The leading group 
gives unprecedented priority to both internet security and information management as a single concept, trying to 
fight the lack of a coordinated approach that has caused problems in the past. President Xi has referred to internet 
security and information management as ‘two wings of one bird, two wheels on one car’.71 With Xi as its head, the 
new group should be able to make firm demands and solve internal discrepancies where necessary.  

As part of the new initiative, November 2014 saw the first World Internet Conference, hosted in Wuzhen, China. 
With the presence of representatives from various big names like Apple and Microsoft, President Xi affirmed that 
under the terms of mutual respect and trust, China was willing to cooperate with other states to achieve a peaceful 
cyberspace and a multilaterally governed, transparent internet, while sticking to the notion that state sovereignty 
must be fully respected in cyberspace.72 At the second Conference a year later, President Xi delivered a keynote 
speech in which he called for ‘building a cyber community of common destiny and put forward the principles of 
respecting  cyber  sovereignty,  safeguarding  cyber  security,  encouraging  cyber  opening  up,  and  building  cyber 
order’.73 As part of his ideas, Xi proposed building an internet governance system based on a multilateral approach, 
and denounced unilateralism in which only a few parties discuss the future of the internet.74 His other proposals 
concerned  the  digital  gap,  cultural  diversity  in  cyberspace,  the  digital  economy,  and  cyber  security  in  general, 
indicating the core elements of China’s cyber strategy. While this call might be a chance for deeper cooperation with 
China, it also impliedly depicts China’s dissatisfaction with the current system and the desire to guide the existing 
structure and governance of cyberspace and technological development closer to their way of thinking.75 Indeed, in 
the  National  Meeting  on  Cyber  Security  and  Information  Technology  held  in  April  2016,  President  Xi  once  again 
reaffirmed the importance of cyber sovereignty, implying a rejection of the applicability of international law and 
existing regulations in cyberspace.76  

Overall, despite the lack of one single strategy clearly listing China’s future plans and ambitions, the different pieces 
of  information  allow  a  number  of  conclusions.  The  existing  and  newly  created  mechanisms  must  improve  the 
security of the domestic internet infrastructure, reinforce the move towards indigenous innovation detailed in the 
15-year  plan,  and,  most  importantly,  help  China  become  the  leading  actor  on  the  global  stage  by  promoting  an 
alternative  attitude  to  internet  governance.  The  Chinese  government  understands  the  value  and  power  of 
technology,  innovation,  and  the  internet,  but  remains  extremely  careful  in  operating  the  ‘double-edged  sword’, 
being  aware  that  free  information,  once  released,  is  impossible  to  stop  and  has  great  potential  to  shake  the 
foundation of the communist party and the political order of China. Last year, for example, the government set up 
a doctrine of Seven Baselines for using the internet, requiring that whatever is expressed online, must respect seven 
elements:  laws  and  regulations,  the  socialist  system,  the  country’s  national  interest,  citizens’  lawful  rights  and 

                                                                 
69 Rountree, Florence. ‘Information management and internet regulation in China.’ China's Expanding Cyberspace (2014): pp. 
11-13. <http://www.ecfr.eu/page/-/ChinaAnalysisEng_June2014.pdf>. 
70 Zhu, Ningzhu. ‘Xi Jinping Leads Internet Security Group.’ Xinhuanet. 27 Feb. 2014. Accessed 22 Aug. 2016. 
<http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/china/2014-02/27/c_133148273.htm>. 
71 ‘Xi Jinping: Ba wo guo cong wangluo daguo jianshe chengwei wangluo qiangguo (Xi Jinping: From a big internet country to a 
powerful internet country).’ Xinhuanet. 28 Feb. 2014. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. <http://news.xinhuanet.com/info/2014-
02/28/c_133148804.htm>. 
72 ‘Chinese President Xi Jinping Calls for International Cooperation on Cyberspace Security.’ The Economic Times. 19 Nov. 2014. 
Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. <http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/international/world-news/chinese-president-xi-jinping-
calls-for-international-cooperation-on-cyberspace-security/articleshow/45205445.cms>. 
73 ‘Infographic: Achievements of the 2nd WIC.’ China Daily. 21 Dec. 2015. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. 
<http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/business/tech/2015-12/21/content_22761073.htm>. 
74 Zhang, Rui. ‘China Headlines: Xi Slams 'double Standards,' Advocates Shared Future in Cyberspace.’ CCTV.COM. 17 Dec. 2015. 
Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. <http://english.cntv.cn/2015/12/17/ARTI1450334752126739.shtml>. 
75 Lu, Chuanying. ‘China's Emerging Cyberspace Strategy.’ The Diplomat. 24 May 2016. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. 
<http://thediplomat.com/2016/05/chinas-emerging-cyberspace-strategy/>. 
76 Lu, 2016.  

15 

interests,  public  order,  morality,  and  accuracy.77  Given  this,  it  is  likely  that  the  government  will  continue  with  a 
similar supervisory mind-set. 

 

Institutional  fragmentation  has  been  a  constant  feature  in  China’s  cyber  organisation.  A  mixture  of  government 
institutions and military departments, together with uncoordinated action between central and local authorities, 
has  created  a  strong  incentive  for  establishing  a  more  streamlined  and  synchronised  approach.  To  give  a  clear 
overview of the exact institutions in play, this chapter will introduce the past and recently launched initiatives that 
shape  China’s  cyber  governance,  including  Xi  Jinping’s  Central  Leading  Small  Group  for  Internet  Security  and 
Informatisation.  The  chapter  will  examine  both  civilian  and  military  organs,  and  will  first  cover  how  the  general 
responsibility of cyber security is organised and coordinated by looking at the bodies responsible for the decisions 
and execution. 

The military part of the chapter first introduces the military’s strategic thought and then focuses on the role of the 
People’s Liberation Army and its cyber espionage and intelligence units, which have previously acted mainly under 
the 3rd and 4th Departments of the General Staff Department, but are expected to see a restructuring under the 
newly created Strategic Support Force. This section also includes an analysis of the patriotic hacktivist groups which, 
despite  their  usefulness  to  the  government,  may  seriously  hamper  China’s  overall  development  and  foreign 
relations.  

 

As Amy Chang has noted, the key driver for formulating China’s cyber security strategy remains maintaining the 
communist  party’s  ruling  power.78  Therefore,  as  with  any  other  subject,  the  party  ultimately  commands  all  the 
mechanisms regulating China’s cyberspace. So far, it has not been able to effectively  reduce the large number of 
stakeholders with competing interests. However, like the noticeable trend in several other countries like Israel and 
the US, China’s recent steps have allowed it to move towards a more streamlined unified command line for cyber. 

The highest-level decision-makers in China are the Politburo Standing Committee, the State Council, and the Central 
Military Commission. For policy-making, it is the State Council that usually adopts new initiatives, including those in 
cyberspace, such as the 15-Year Plan in 2006 and the New Policy Opinion in 2012, but there are several government 
agencies charged with the execution of policy. In 1982, when China was not even connected to the internet, the 
State  Council  set  up  a  government  body  for  digital  affairs,  seeking  to  centralise  control  over  the  developing 
‘computers  and  large-scale  integrated  circuits’.79  Groups  with  similar  structures  and  roles  remain  the  key 
organisations today, but before turning to explaining their current functions, ministerial-level agencies which mostly 
perform general policy implementation will be introduced: 

 

The  Ministry  of  Industry  and  Information  Technology  (MIIT)  was  established  in  2008  as  an  attempt  to 
centralise  information  technology  development.  It  undertakes  all  State  Council  work  on  information 
management and carries similar domestic responsibilities to the Department of Homeland Security in the 
US.  It  also  sets  standards,  holds  exercises,  inspects  network  security,  and  coordinates  information  and 
telecoms security through a special department.80 Whereas the primary duty to respond to cyber-attacks 
rests with the National Computer Network Emergency Response Technical Team/Coordination Centre of 
China (CNCERT) – a non-governmental technical centre established in 2002, MIIT has been influential in 

                                                                 
77 Creemers, 2015, p. 10.  
78 Chang, 2014, p. 32. 
79 Wang, 2014, cited in Rountree, 2014, p.11. 
80 The Cyber Index: International Security Trends and Realities. Report by the United Nations Institute for Disarmament 
Research, 2013, p. 15. <http://www.unidir.org/files/publications/pdfs/cyber-index-2013-en-463.pdf>.  

16 

supporting  its  work  through  helping  it  build  virus  and  vulnerability  databases,  finding  malicious  IP  and 
domain name providers, and guiding CNCERT to engage in international cooperation.81 MIIT also contains 
the  State  Administration  for  Science,  Technology  and  Industry  for  National  Defence (SASTIND),  which 
drafts guidelines, policies, laws and regulations involved with science, technology and industry for national 
defence.82  Prior  to  MIIT  a  separate  ministry,  the  Commission  for  Science,  Technology  and  Industry  for 
National Defence (COSTIND), carried out similar tasks.  

The  Ministry  of  Public  Security  (MPS)  investigates  cybercrime  and  takes  care  of  critical  infrastructure 
protection together with development work through a wide network of research labs.83 It is also responsible 
for  overseeing  the  commercial  products  used  by  the  government  and  controlling  all  commercial 
information security companies. Importantly, MPS operates the Great Firewall of China and is also involved 
with conducting domestic intelligence.84 

The  Ministry  of  State  Security  (MSS)  functions  as  an  organ  to  conduct  counterespionage, 
counterintelligence,  foreign  intelligence,  and  domestic  intelligence.  Its  efforts  originally  focused  on 
countering  separatism,  terrorism  and  religious  extremism,  which  are  often  described  as  the  three 
existential challenges to the  Communist Party. However, despite having  attracted little public attention, 
MSS’s estimated cyber capabilities have grown significantly in order to collect further political and economic 
data on foreign governments, NGOs and domestic dissidents.85  

 

 

Other than these institutions, various sources have also highlighted the importance of the State Encryption Bureau, 
which conducts party, civilian and military encryption management, including restricting the import and export of 
any  encrypted  devices;  and  the  State  Secrets  Bureau,  which  manages  all  classified  networks  and  has  been 
increasingly engaged in keeping up with the technological changes China is witnessing.86 As all of the three ministries 
and the two bureaus operate under the State Council, they are seemingly equal in hierarchy. However, looking at 
past actions and attention, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology seems to be the main force behind 
executing the tangible progress of China’s cyberspace. 

On  the  research  and  development  side,  further  attention  has  been  paid  to  a  number  of  government  affiliated 
research institutions, such as the  Chinese Institute of Contemporary International Relations, which acts directly 
under MSS, the Chinese Academy of Engineering, and the Chinese Academy of Sciences. Not surprisingly, Tsinghua 
University and Peking University, the top two academic institutions in China, are closely related to the government’s 
information technology related research work. Deeper strategic development is run by the PLA through institutions 
such as the  Academy of Military Science and the  PLA Information Engineering University. March 2016  saw the 
launch  of  the  Cyber  Security  Association  of  China,  consisting  of  academic  institutes,  individuals  and  internet 
companies such as Tencent, to speed up the development of industry standards and better coordinate research on 
cyber security.87  

                                                                 
81 Fu, Jingguang. ‘Policies and Practices on Network Security of MIIT.’ Workshop on Cybersecurity Policy Development in the 
APEC Region. Hangzhou. 27 Mar. 2011. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. <http://mddb.apec.org/Documents/2011/TEL/TEL43-SPSG-
WKSP/11_tel43_spsg_wksp_004.pdf>. To learn more about China’s national CERT, see their website 
<http://www.cert.org.cn/publish/english/index.html>.  
82 ‘State Administration for Science, Technology and Industry for National Defense (SASTIND).’ Nuclear Threat Initiative. 1 Oct. 
2011. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. <http://www.nti.org/learn/facilities/781/>. 
83 Goodrich, Jimmy, ‘Chinese Civilian Cybersecurity: Stakeholders, Strategies, and Policy,’ p. 6 in Lindsay, 2012. 
84 Feakin, Tobias. Enter the Cyber Dragon. Report by the Australian Strategic Policy Institute, 2013, p. 3. 
<https://www.aspi.org.au/publications/special-report-enter-the-cyber-dragon-understanding-chinese-intelligence-agencies-
cyber-capabilities/10_42_31_AM_SR50_chinese_cyber.pdf>. 
85 Inkster, Nigel. China's Cyber Power. Routledge, 2016, p. 54. 
86 Goodrich, 2012, p. 6. 
87 ‘China Launches First Cybersecurity Organisation.’ Cyber Security Review. 26 Mar. 2016. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. 
<http://www.cybersecurity-review.com/china-launches-first-cybersecurity-organisation-report>. 

17 

 

Central leading groups and Leading small groups have become a common feature in China’s political culture to tackle 
issues that the existing bureaucratic machine is incapable of solving. Complying directly with the orders of the party’s 
highest leaders, these are perhaps the most efficient mechanisms to the adoption of successful reforms. Whereas 
the  State  Informatisation  Leading  Group  (SILG)  and  the  State  Network  and  Information  Security  Coordination 
Small Group (SNISCSG) – the first efforts to develop China’s indigenous information technologies and formulate a 
secure Chinese cyberspace – were guided by the State Council, the recently established Central Leading Small Group 
for Internet Security and Informatisation (CLSGISI) acts directly under the direction of President Xi, and has thereby 
assumed unprecedented authority. The leading group reportedly consists of 22 members: next to Xi Jinping, the 
Premier Li Keqiang and a Standing Committee member Liu Yunshan act as vice-chairs, to lead eight other Politburo 
members and eleven ministerial-level officials. As it is common in China for a new body to take over the duties of a 
previously  existing  organ,  this  group  has  subsumed  the  roles  of  the  SILG  and  SNISCSG,  by  merging  most  of  the 
members  from  the  previous  two  bodies.88  Next  to  the  obvious  significance  of  the  group  deriving  from  its  high 
leadership which shows cyber security’s weight in Chinese policy-making, the group is hoped to act as a middleman 
resolving internal misunderstandings between the ministerial-level institutions described above.  

More than two years after its establishment, the CLSGISI itself has not been much discussed in the English-speaking 
media, but the executive body implementing President Xi’s reforms – the Cyberspace Administration of China (CAC) 
– has caught its attention rather often. The CAC is basically a refreshment of the State Internet Information Office 
(SIIO) as its Chinese name and chairman Lu Wei remained the same, although Lu  unexpectedly stepped down in 
June 2016 to be replaced by Xu Lin. SIIO was founded in 2011 to better coordinate the ‘rectification’ of the internet, 
working in close cooperation with MIIT and MPS to patrol social media, where user-created content generates a 
serious nuisance to the government. Establishing SIIO was  a specific step by the State Council Information Office 
(SCIO), which manages the general domestic information flow.89 Seemingly tied with Xi’s power consolidation and 
countering  domestic  disobedience,  CAC’s  predominant  function  remains  the  same  as  that  of  SIIO  –  to  monitor 
information movement and further strengthen the grip on websites allegedly undermining domestic stability.  

The  creation  of  CAC  also  represents  an  attempt  to  combine  propaganda  with  technological  innovation  and 
development.90 For example, CAC has published a choral anthem, which includes verses such as  ‘with loyalty and 
devotion, we watch over our domain day and night.’91 Affirming the significance of the future of China’s cyberspace, 
Time Magazine included Lu Wei among the 100 most influential people in 2015, emphasising his (former) power to 
pilot more than 700 million Chinese netizens.92 CAC has so far executed its power by blocking foreign VPNs, closing 
and  monitoring  WeChat  (the  most  popular  messaging  application  in  China)  accounts  of  individuals  perceived  as 
threatening,  and  possibly  coordinating  cyber-attacks  against  anti-censorship  groups  such  as  GreatFire.org,  an 
organisation seeking to bring transparency to the Great Firewall by providing information on any blocked websites 
and keywords.93 The beginning of 2016 saw a proposal for a new cyber security law that would include provisions 
theoretically  banning  local  service  providers  from  enabling  connections  to  sites  with  domain  names  registered 

                                                                 
88 Creemers, Rogier. ‘Cybersecurity and Informatization Leading Group: Names and Documents.’ China Copyright and Media. 13 
Mar. 2014. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. <https://chinacopyrightandmedia.wordpress.com/2014/03/13/cybersecurity-and-
informatization-leading-group-names-and-documents/>.  
89 Rountree, 2014, p. 12. 
90 Creemers, 2015. 
91 Sisi, Wei, and Qiu Wei. ‘China’s Internet Censors Have a Choral Anthem and It's Everything You Want It to Be.’ Quartz. 16 Feb. 
2015. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. <http://qz.com/345377/chinas-internet-censors-have-a-choral-anthem-and-its-everything-you-
want-it-to-be/>. 
92 Huntsman, Jon. ‘The 100 Most Influential People: Lu Wei.’ Time. 16 Apr. 2015. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. 
<http://time.com/3823285/lu-wei-2015-time-100/>. 
93 The team at GreatFire.org wrote an open letter to Lu Wei in January 2015, drawing on evidence from a variety of sources and 
showing CAC’s involvement in man-in-the-middle attacks against foreign technology giants such as Apple, Yahoo, Microsoft and 
Google, and calling for it to enhance Chinese cyberspace, rather than patrol and intimidate internet users. See more at: ‘An 
Open Letter to Lu Wei and the Cyberspace Administration of China.’Greatfire.org. 26 Jan. 2015. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. 
<https://en.greatfire.org/blog/2015/jan/open-letter-lu-wei-and-cyberspace-administration-china>. 

18 

abroad. MIIT has, however, said that the core of the new regulations has been misunderstood, and they would not 
affect foreign companies launching services in China or users accessing such websites.94 Despite the fact that the 
second reading of the draft regulations in June 2016 saw certain amendments, the existing draft further reaffirms 
the state’s strict approach to controlling cyberspace and is soon expected to become adopted as law.95 

Each  of  these  mentioned  bodies  has  been  trusted  with  specific  tasks.  While  academia  and  specific  institutions 
conduct research and strategic development work, it is the ministerial-level organisations which come up with policy 
initiatives and direct the required changes. Establishing the Central Leading Small Group for Internet Security and 
Informatisation  and  the  CAC  as  its  executive  body  represents  an  additional  step  from  the  previously  existing 
bureaucracy, as their authoritative leadership guarantees a better coordinated action between the ministries and 
bureaus.  In  terms  of  policy-making  efficiency,  it  is  a  positive  step  towards  a  less  fragmented  system,  but  it  also 
constitutes a part of President Xi’s campaign to restrict anti-party and liberal movements through the opportunities 
the internet creates, which is demonstrated by the CAC’s predominantly restricting activities.  

 

The following sections will look more closely at China’s cyber security from the military’s strategic and organisational 
perspective, which is intertwined with the goals and activities of the civilian agencies thus far discussed. While the 
militaries of the US and Russia have each published official documents on activities in cyberspace, the PLA has not 
issued any specific doctrine. However, the concept of information has always been extremely important in China’s 
military strategies, and the contemporary emphasis on gathering information and intelligence is entirely in line with 
ancient Chinese strategists such as Sun Zi. Therefore, it is essential to be aware of the guiding principles of the PLA’s 
conducts before engaging in analysing the specific activities of its cyber units. 

 

The concept  of information plays a central role in Chinese military thinking. As  cyberspace is strongly  related to 
information, one can find relevant content within general military documents which explain the PLA’s ambitions in 
cyberspace. For example, the Military Strategic Guidelines, normally renewed every 10-15-years, lead defence and 
military policies strongly towards modernisation, while recognising the importance of the ability to fight in ‘technical 
conditions’ and implying the significance of information technology in overall strategies.96 Furthermore, the recently 
updated  Science  of  Military  Strategy,  a  book  issued  by  the  Academy  of  Military  Sciences,  the  most  important 
research institution of the PLA, puts even stronger emphasis on conflict in the network domain and elaborates on 
developments of high-tech local war, giving guidelines on how to behave in such circumstances.97 In fact, its chapter 
on information warfare openly declares that China does have specialised network warfare units, operating within 
both the military and the civilian spheres, and carrying out both offensive and defensive cyber operations.98  

Another initiative was launched in October 2014 when President Xi and the Central Military Commission issued a 
document  entitled  Opinion  on  Further  Strengthening  Military  Information  Security  Work,  which  listed  the  basic 
principles and priorities for the PLA, but also provided directives for the military in the information security field.99 
                                                                 
94 Chin, Josh. ‘China Says New Internet Regulations Won't Increase Blocking of Foreign Websites.’ The Wall Street Journal. 30 
Mar. 2016. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. <http://www.wsj.com/articles/china-says-new-internet-regulations-wont-increase-blocking-
of-foreign-websites-1459351655>. 
95 For a full draft of the proposed law on cybersecurity, see Creemers, Rogier. ‘People's Republic of China Cybersecurity Law 
(Second Reading Draft).’ China Copyright and Media. 6 July 2016. Accessed 18 Aug. 2016. 
<https://chinacopyrightandmedia.wordpress.com/2016/07/06/peoples-republic-of-china-cybersecurity-law-second-reading-
draft/>. 
96 Jiang, Zemin. ‘Guoji xingshi he junshi zhanlüe fangzhe (The Global Situation and Military Strategic Outline)’ in Jiang Zemin 
Wenxuan (Jiang Zemin Anthology). Beijing, 2006, cited in Chang, 2014, p. 19. 
97 Chang, 2014, p. 25. 
98 Tiezzi, Shannon. ‘China (Finally) Admits to Hacking.’ The Diplomat. 18 Mar. 2015. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. 
<http://thediplomat.com/2015/03/china-finally-admits-to-hacking/>. 
99 ‘Jing Xi Jinping zhuxi pizhun zhongyang junwei yinfa ‘guanyu jinyibu jiaqiang jundui xinxi anquan gongzuo de yijian (Chairman 
of the Central Military Commission Xi Jinping approved the issuance of ‘Opinion on Further Strengthening Military Information 

19 

In May 2015, the Chinese Ministry of National Defence issued China’s Military Strategy, also referred to as the 2015 
Defence White Paper, which places intense focus on the informatisation of warfare, and declares China’s intention 
to  further  develop  cyber  force  and  ‘enhance  its  capabilities  of  cyberspace  situation  awareness,  cyber  defence, 
support  for  the  country’s  endeavours  in  cyberspace  and  participation  in  international  cyber  cooperation’.100 
Importantly, the document also reaffirms China’s goal to build an informationised military to be able to win future 
informationised wars.101  

China’s ambition to achieve superiority in cyberspace is related to the belief that disabling the enemy’s most valuable 
operation systems in the initial phases of a conflict would bring a quick victory. Looking at the available documents, 
it seems that China is moving towards a common approach that incorporates cyber war with a kinetic attack.102 This 
also corresponds with the Chinese strategists’ hypothesis that informatisation creates a new battlefield which the 
PLA must master.103 However, there are also pragmatic economic and political objectives behind the military’s cyber 
activities, mainly short and long-term gains from espionage against other governments and the private sector. Next 
to collecting valuable information from abroad, perhaps even more essential is the surveillance conducted against 
the  Chinese  citizens  in  order  to  maintain  control  and  political  stability  within  the  communist  system.  The  main 
targets  normally  include  political  dissidents  and  democracy  activists,  but  also  Tibetans,  Uighurs  and  Falun  Gong 
followers to examine their networks and communication methods.104 While these activities are not conducted only 
through  military  mechanisms,  the  paper  will  later  show  that  the  PLA’s  role  is  certainly  vital  in  sustaining  such 
operations. 

Interestingly, China has always emphasised its defensive nature in every aspect of warfare, including information 
security. The 2013 Defence White Paper proclaimed China’s right to protect its interests of national security and 
delivered  a  promise  not  to  attack  unless  attacked  first,  including  in  cyberspace.105  Whereas  several  Western 
countries have communicated a similar position, the Chinese attitude relies on Mao Zedong’s  ‘active defence’ as 
already emphasised  in Document  27 in 2003, assuming to attack only after  being  attacked.106 Yet, Mao’s  ‘active 
defence’  can  also  be  interpreted  as  the  alternative  use  of  defensive  and  offensive.  This,  together  with  different 
strategic cultures, creates a situation where an act considered defensive by the Chinese might seem offensive to the 
West.107 As an interesting parallel, ‘active cyber defence’ is widely discussed in the West, referring to the ability to 
detect and mitigate key threats before suffering from any damage, including the capacity to launch aggressive and 
offensive  countermeasures.108  Thus,  Western  actions  taken  under  the  concept  of  ‘active  cyber  defence’  might 
similarly seem offensive to the Chinese. Connecting the Chinese and the Western understandings of active defence, 
it  seems  that  each  has  understood  that  in  cyberspace,  mere  defensive  capabilities  are  not  enough  to  deter 
adversaries from attacking one’s networks. As the Chinese have recently admitted the existence of purely offensive 
cyber units in the PLA, it is increasingly clear that conflict in cyberspace has achieved fundamental importance in the 
Chinese understandings of policy making, both in peacetime, and in any future war.109  

                                                                 
Security Work’),’ Jiefangjun bao (PLA Daily), 7 Oct. 2014. <http://news.xinhuanet.com/mil/2014- 10/07/c_1112726181.htm>, 
cited in Chang, 2014, p. 19. 
100 ‘Document: China's Military Strategy.’ US Naval Institute News. 26 May 2015. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. 
<https://news.usni.org/2015/05/26/document-chinas-military-strategy>. 
101 Ibid 
102 Deal, Jacqueline N. ‘Chinese Information War: Historical Analogies and Conceptual Debates,’ pp. 18-22 in Lindsay, 2012. 
103 Peng Guangqian and Yao Youzhi eds., ‘Chapter 20: Rise of the High-Tech Local War and Its Historic Status,’ in The Science of 
Military Strategy, Academy of Military Science Strategic Research Department. Beijing, 2005, cited in Chang, 2014, p. 25. 
104 Feakin, 2013, p. 5. 
105 Information Office of the State Council. The Diversified Employment of China's Armed Forces. Apr. 2013. Accessed 23 Aug. 
2016. <http://www.nti.org/media/pdfs/China_Defense_White_Paper_2013.pdf>. 
106 Blasko, 2014, cited in Chang, 2014, p. 20. 
107 Chang, 2014, p. 25. 
108 Dewar, Robert S. The ‘Triptych of Cyber Security’: A Classification of Active Cyber Defence. Proceedings of 6th International 
Conference on Cyber Conflict, Tallinn. 2014, p. 10. <https://ccdcoe.org/cycon/2014/proceedings/d1r1s9_dewar.pdf>. 
109 For a detailed account on Chinese thinking on cyber conflict, see Pollpeter, Kevin. ‘Chapter 6: Chinese Writings on 
Cyberwarfare and Coercion,’ in Lindsay et al., 2015. 

20 

 

In  1986,  China  launched  Programme  863  to  catch  up  with  the  West  in  key  strategic  industries  through  foreign 
intelligence collection, and to reduce its dependence on foreign technologies. The plan was intensified after the Gulf 
War in 1991, when the PLA was stunned by the sophistication of US weaponry.110 Relying on this imperative, the 
Chinese military has implemented numerous reforms and modernisation plans, the latest and most comprehensive 
of them approved in December 2015 to adjust to the 21st century’s cyber era and exploit its opportunities. Parts of 
the  Chinese  military  have  become  useful  tools  for  the  government  to  conduct  political  and  economic  cyber 
espionage,  and  also  to  help  reduce  the  PLA’s  own  technological  and  strategic  disadvantages  relative  to  its 
competitors.  

Prior  to  the  largest  restructuring  within  the  PLA’s  modernisation  drive,  the  General  Staff  Department’s 
Communications  Department  was  restructured  into  the  Informatisation  Department,  together  with  establishing 
several  smaller  information-related  departments  in  the  PLA  regions  and  academia  to  raise  the  level  of 
informatisation in the PLA.111 However, it seems that these developments should not receive too much attention in 
light of the reforms President Xi announced on the last day of 2015. Three new organs were introduced: the PLA 
Rocket  Force,  the  PLA  Strategic  Support  Force,  and  the  Army  Leadership  Organ.  Importantly,  the  Rocket  Force 
assumed the responsibilities of the PLA Second Artillery Force and earned promotion to a status equal to the PLA 
Army, Navy and Air Force. By today, it appears that the Strategic Support Force (SSF) has also been given a status 
equal to these professional service branches, and will likely formulate the core of China’s information warfare effort 
by comprising forces in the space, cyber and electromagnetic domains, thus finally bringing China’s military-related 
informatisation activities under one umbrella.112  

However, the reforms are currently being implemented and the date of actual completion remains unknown.113 So 
far, two (former) executive bodies of the PLA’s General Staff Department (GSD): the 3rd and the 4th Departments, 
have been trusted with cyber intelligence and cyber-warfare respectively. Even though both departments will most 
likely become integrated under the SSF, their successors’ corresponding goals and practices are expected to remain 
similar, and therefore, it is appropriate to introduce these institutions in more detail. 

 

Before giving full attention to the 3rd Department (3/PLA), sometimes also referred to as the Technical Department, 
it is necessary to recall that the MSS carries similar intelligence responsibilities in the civilian side. Also, the General 
Staff  Department’s  2nd  Department  (2/PLA)  is  considered  the  conventional  intelligence  gathering  agency  and  is 
involved  with  collecting  and  analysing  mainly  open-source  information  through  its  global  network  of  defence 
attachés. Whereas it is not regularly engaged with covert operations, its non-official cover officers are believed to 
have  had  significant  success  in  collecting  valuable  data  about  US  and  other  Western  weapon  systems. 114 
Nevertheless, neither MSS nor 2/PLA have played as significant role in cyber intelligence as 3/PLA.  

According to Nigel Inkster, 3/PLA has so far been the main operational force of the PLA’s cyber activities, as almost 
all operations that have been tracked originate from its official premises.115 Appearing to be a counterpart to the 
National Security Agency in the US, 3/PLA’s main focus has been on collecting signals intelligence (SIGINT). Before 
the internet’s surge, it operated as a conventional SIGINT agency, but did not possess  known overseas collection 

                                                                 
110 Inkster, Nigel. ‘Chinese Intelligence in the Cyber Age.’ Survival: Global Politics and Strategy Vol 55(1) (2013): 45-66, p. 50. 
<https://www.iiss.org/en/publications/survival/sections/2013-94b0/survival--global-politics-and-strategy-february-march-
2013-3db7/55-1-05-inkster-936c>. 
111 Thomas, Timothy L. Three Faces of the Cyber Dragon. Foreign Military Studies Office, 2012, pp. 69-72. 
112 Costello, John. ‘The Strategic Support Force: China's Information Warfare Service.’ The Jamestown Foundation. 8 Feb. 2016. 
Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. 
<http://www.jamestown.org/programs/chinabrief/single/?tx_ttnews%5Btt_news%5D=45075&cHash=9758054639ab2cb6bc78
68e96736b6cb#.V6RA_Lt95aQ>. 
113 It might be assumed that the PLA targets to complete the reforms by around 2020. 
114 Inkster, 2013, p. 49. 
115 Inkster, Nigel. ‘Chinese Intelligence Operations and Transnational Consequences,’ p. 24 in Lindsay, 2012.  

21 

capabilities matching those of the Americans or the British.116 More recently, its role has been narrowed to cyber 
network exploitation (CNE) or espionage, and despite its presence in scandalous news stories quite often, 3/PLA has 
proven to be a highly beneficial component of China’s military. At the same time, it has managed to remain rather 
mysterious  about  its  interactions  with  other  domestic  intelligence  units,  including  the  MSS,  leaving  open  the 
question of how efficient the coordination and information sharing among the domestic bodies is. Nevertheless, 
looking at 3/PLA’s wide-ranging structure, traditional competence in SIGINT, its high performance in computing and 
cryptology,  and  its  status  as  China’s  largest  employer  of  professional  linguists,  one  may  assume  its  respective 
importance, or even a central role among other institutions.117 However, with the announced creation of the SSF, it 
is  likely  that  China’s  strategic  intelligence  and  informatisation  units  will  be  merged  into  one  central  intelligence 
structure, leaving open the question of in what form 3/PLA will continue, if at all.  

3/PLA’s headquarters is in Beijing, where it runs political and logistics departments together with the Science and 
Technology  Intelligence  Bureau  and  the  Science  and  Technology  Equipment  Bureau,  which  commands  three 
research institutes responsible for computing, sensor technology and cryptography, respectively named  the 56th, 
57th and 58th Research Institutes. In addition, 3/PLA manages or is affiliated with several Computer Network Defence-
related  institutions  such  as  the  National  Research  Centre  for  Information  Security  Technology,  the  Information 
Security  Research  Institute,  and  the  PLA  Communications  Security  Bureau.118  Next  to  these  bodies,  it  is  the  12 
operational bureaus that play the most important role in 3/PLA’s structure. Each of the bureaus usually carries out 
a specific task, for example intercepting radio or satellite communications, conducting cryptology, translation, or 
intelligence analysis on diplomatic communications, foreign militaries, economic entities, educational institutions, 
and individuals considered worthy of surveillance.119  

The 2nd and 12th Bureaus deserve further attention.120 First, the Shanghai headquartered 2nd Bureau, also known as 
Unit 61398 by its Military Unit Cover Designator, seems to specifically target the US and Canada to obtain political, 
economic, and military intelligence. It was exposed in February 2013, when Mandiant published an unprecedentedly 
thorough report on a unit they named APT-1, which has achieved public attention through its very similar missions, 
capabilities, resources and location to the 2nd Bureau. After having observed APT-1’s long-term and extensive cyber 
espionage operations for several years, Mandiant concluded that APT-1 is most likely government-funded and one 
of the most prolific and dangerous of China’s cyber actors.121 According to the size of its physical infrastructure, APT-
1 is staffed by at least hundreds, if not  thousands of people, all required to be competent  in computer  network 
operations and English.122 Indeed, as Mandiant notes, 87% of APT-1’s victims are in English-speaking countries and 
belong to industries that China has said to carry strategic importance to national growth. With the apparent help of 
recruited linguists, malware authors and industry experts, APT-1 had by the time of the report’s publication obtained 
hundreds of terabytes of data from at least 141 organisations over 20 industries.123  

                                                                 
116 Inkster, 2013, p. 49. 
117 Stokes, Mark A., Jenny Lin, and Russell Hsiao. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army Signals Intelligence and Cyber 
Reconnaissance Infrastructure. Report by Project 2049 Institute, 2011, p. 3. 
<https://project2049.net/documents/pla_third_department_sigint_cyber_stokes_lin_hsiao.pdf>. 
118 Stokes et al., 2011, pp. 4-5.  
119 Stokes et al., 2011, p. 7.  
120 For an overview of all 12 bureaus, see Stokes, Mark A. ‘Chapter 7: The Chinese People’s Liberation Army Computer Network 
Operations Infrastructure,’ p. 169 in Lindsay et al., 2015. 
121 APT1: Exposing One of China’s Cyber Espionage Units. Report by Mandiant, 2013, p. 2. 
<https://www.fireeye.com/content/dam/fireeye-www/services/pdfs/mandiant-apt1-report.pdf>. 
122 The five PLA officers that the US indicted in 2014 summer were also working for Unit 61398. For a detailed overview of the 
2nd Bureau, see Stokes, Mark A. The PLA General Staff Department Third Department Second Bureau. Report by Project 2049 
Institute, 2015. <http://www.project2049.net/documents/Stokes_PLA_General_Staff_Department_Unit_61398.pdf>. 
123 APT-1 has demonstrated the ability to establish its presence on the victim’s network and revisit it over several years (the 
longest recognised period exceeding four years) to access the victim’s intellectual property, business plans, technology 
blueprints, etc. See more at APT-1, 2013, p. 3-5. The Chinese side has called the Mandiant’s report ‘amateurish’ and argued it is 
technologically highly unlikely to track the origin of specified attacks. See more at ‘Chinese Media Slam Cyber-Hacking 
Report.’ VOA. 21 Feb. 2013. Accessed 24 Aug. 2016. <http://www.voanews.com/content/china-media-slam-cyber-hacking-
report/1607835.html>. 

22 

A year after the Mandiant’s report, a threat intelligence firm CrowdStrike disclosed another unit of 3/PLA. Namely, 
the 12th Bureau, or Unit 61486, also headquartered in Shanghai is believed to support China’s space surveillance 
network  and  tasked  to  intercept  satellite  communications  and  collect  space-based  SIGINT.124  According  to  the 
CrowdStrike  report,  the  group,  also  called  Putter  Panda,  has  been  active  since  2007,  allegedly  targeting  the 
aerospace  industries  in  both  Europe  and  the  US  through  attacks  on  the  government,  defence,  research  and 
technology sectors. The group’s methodology relies on deploying malware through targeted emails in the form of 
spear phishing.125 The uncovering of the 12th Bureau shows that China can  use cyber espionage on two strategic 
levels: illegally obtained intellectual property allows  it to speed up its own space-related developments, but also 
enables exploitation of an opponent’s satellite weaknesses during a real conflict.126  

Evidently, collecting foreign intelligence through cyber espionage has been fully institutionalised and prioritised for 
3/PLA. However, 3/PLA’s operations are often in parallel with those of the Military Region Technical Reconnaissance 
Bureaus (TRB), which operate under seven military regions and are independent  of  3/PLA.  Like  3/PLA, the  TRBs’ 
responsibilities  include  computer  network  exploitation,  but  also  cryptology  and  communications  intelligence.127 
Next to the military region TRBs, the PLA runs Service TRBs which intercept communications in areas related to their 
interests, such as the air force or the navy.128  

 

Even though the 4th Department (4/PLA) has received less attention than 3/PLA, it (or its respective future successor 
under the SSF) is expected to fall under greater scrutiny due to the revelation of the existing network attack forces 
in  the  2015  edition  of  The  Science  of  Military  Strategy.129  Formerly  known  as  the  Electronic  Countermeasures 
Department, 4/PLA is the institution one should become familiar with when seeking to prepare for the increasingly 
hyped  danger  of  cyber  war.  Hierarchically  the  equal  of  3/PLA,  4/PLA  was  traditionally  responsible  for  electronic 
warfare, but has recently also assumed the task of carrying out computer network attacks (CNA)130 as a result of the 
PLA’s adoption of an offensive information warfare doctrine, the Integrated Network Electronic Warfare (INEW), 
which is an ‘organic combination of electronic warfare and computer network warfare’, as explained by General Dai 
Qingmin, former Commander of 4/PLA.131 Therefore, unlike 3/PLA, this department’s mission is offensive, rather 
than defensive electronic warfare or pure intelligence collection and analysis.132 The simplest  offensive activities 
could be denial-of-service attacks to disrupt services or the use of worms or Trojan Horses to obtain sensitive data. 
4/PLA  can  also  engage  in  collecting  electronic  intelligence  and  providing  tactical  electronic  support  measures.133 
Furthermore, it manages electronic countermeasures (ECM) units, which have obtained increasing coverage in the 
PLA  media  due  to  the  increasing  interconnection  between  information  and  electronic-based  missions  and 

                                                                 
124 Stokes et al., 2011, p. 11. 
125 See more at CrowdStrike Intelligence Report: Putter Panda. Report by CrowdStrike, 2014. <https://cdn0.vox-
cdn.com/assets/4589853/crowdstrike-intelligence-report-putter-panda.original.pdf>.  
126 Cheng, Joey. ‘Cyber Conflict Escalates: Second Chinese PLA Hacking Group Accused.’ Defense Systems. 10 June 2014. 
Accessed 24 Aug. 2016. <http://defensesystems.com/articles/2014/06/10/chinese-military-hacker-unit-crowdstrike.aspx>. 
127 Stokes et al., 2011, p. 12. 
128 Stokes, Mark. ‘People’s Liberation Army Infrastructure for Cyber Reconnaissance,’ p. 23 in Lindsay, 2012. 
129 Indeed, even though analysts consider the newly confirmed fact rather a self-promotion and sensationalism without 
conveying anything substantially new, it does make other countries even more cautious when it comes to cooperating with 
China in any cyber-related developments. See more at Tiezzi, 2015.  
130 Krekel, Bryan, Patton Adams, and George Bakos. Occupying the Information High Ground: Chinese Capabilities for Computer 
Network Operations and Cyber Espionage. Report by Northrop Grumman, 2012, p. 44. 
<http://origin.www.uscc.gov/sites/default/files/Research/USCC_Report_Chinese_Capabilities_for_Computer_Network_Operati
ons_and_Cyber_%20Espionage.pdf>. 
131 Lu Daohai, Information Operations. PLA Arts and Literature Press, 1999, p. 324, cited in Mulvenon, James. ‘Chapter 8: PLA 
Computer Network Operations: Scenarios, Doctrine, Organizations, and Capability,’ in Kamphausen, Roy, David Lai, and Andrew 
Scobell (eds.) Beyond the Strait: PLA Missions other than Taiwan, Strategic Studies Institute, 2009, p. 260.  
132 Krekel et al., 2012, p. 47. 
133 Inkster, 2013, p. 49. 

23 

conventional army elements during military exercises.134  

Importantly, 4/PLA is also responsible for managing a number of research institutions related to developing new 
ECM. Apparently, the most notable of these is the 54th Research Institute, which provides engineering support and 
facilitates the department’s connection with other entities under the China Electronic Technology Corporation. For 
training junior officers, 4/PLA runs the PLA Electronic Engineering Academy located in Hefei as the primary academic 
electronic warfare centre in China.135 Interestingly, and again deriving from the Chinese historic understanding of 
information as the key to victory, several of the research institutes under 4/PLA have focused on how to counter key 
American  C4ISR  systems.  Some  of  the  methods  include,  for  example  GPS  jamming,  Joint  Tactical  Information 
Distribution System countermeasures, and synthetic radar jamming. Such electronic warfare capabilities would be 
coordinated with CNA tools to conduct a complete attack against the enemy’s key command and networks.136 

Regarding  the  interaction  between  the  3/PLA  and  4/PLA,  it  is  likely  that  some  of  their  duties,  such  as  R&D, 
intelligence  collection,  or  managing  a  joint  network  warfare  training  system  overlap.137  However,  the  offensive 
nature of 4/PLA’s operations distinguishes it from 3/PLA and has thereby made it a centre of discussion on cyber 
warfare. Yet, 3/PLA has undeniably been more attractive to foreign researchers due to its enduring cyber espionage 
activities, which are currently more tangible than actual cyber war. What might indicate the next possible targets of 
the PLA cyber units is China’s thirteenth five-year plan introduced in October 2015, which outlines the industries in 
which China aims to achieve the most growth. Therefore, other than the defence sector, developers of clean energy, 
electric cars, computer chips as well as healthcare should implement greater security in their online operations.138  

However, it is important to bear in mind that the overall ‘Chinese cyber threat’ is often exemplified and not placed 
into proper context, especially by the Americans. While not justifying China’s actions, Greg Austin, a well-regarded 
China  expert,  draws  attention  to  factors  such  as  commercial  lobbying  and  attention  seeking  by  American  cyber 
security firms, a media environment too receptive to cyberspace intrigues and anti-China rhetoric, and the general 
lack  of  knowledge  even  among  the  highest  decision-makers  on  the  details  and  conduct  of  the  US’s  own  cyber 
espionage and operations against China.139  

 

The establishment of the Strategic Support Force (SSF) was somewhat unexpected for foreign observers, but it is 
actually a logical step within the general modernisation of the PLA. For example, the launch of the PLA’s Cyberspace 
Strategic Intelligence Research Centre in June 2014 to ‘provide strong support in obtaining high-quality intelligence 
research findings and help China gain advantage in national information security’ already led observers to conclude 
that  the  PLA’s  focus  was  increasingly  falling  on  cyberspace.140  Indeed,  as  it  seems  that  information  warfare  has 
become central to China’s ‘active defence’ strategic concept, the SSF will likely become the main force behind its 
execution, acting as a culmination of years of technological advancement and institutional change.141 Moreover, as 
the SSF will assume control  over the PLA’s space and cyber operations,  it will cover two aspects of  China’s new 

                                                                 
134 Easton, Ian, and Mark A. Stokes. China’s Electronic Intelligence Satellite Developments. Report by Project 2049 Institute, 
2011, p .5. 
<https://project2049.net/documents/china_electronic_intelligence_elint_satellite_developments_easton_stokes.pdf>. 
135 Krekel et al., 2012, p. 47. 
136 Ibid, p. 48.  
137 Stokes et al., 2011, p. 15. 
138 CrowdStrike has mapped the groups potentially targeting particular industries according to their previously observed 
activities. See more at China Global Threat Report. Report by CrowdStrike, 2015. <https://www.crowdstrike.com/wp-
content/uploads/Global_Threat_Report-2015/China-2015/Infographic_China-2015.html>. 
139 Austin, Greg. ‘Cyber Security: All China's Fault?’ The Globalist. 30 Aug. 2015. Accessed 24 Aug. 2016. 
<http://www.theglobalist.com/cyber-diplomacy-us-china-problem/>. 
140 Yao, Jianing. ‘PLA Cyberspace Strategic Intelligence Research Center Founded.’ China's Military. 30 June 2014. Accessed 24 
Aug. 2016. <http://eng.chinamil.com.cn/news-channels/china-military-news/2014-06/30/content_6025789.htm>. 
141 Costello, 2016, The Jamestown Foundation. 

24 

strategic ‘triad’ of nuclear, space, and cyber forces, which were noted as the three  ‘critical domains’ in the 2015 
Defence White Paper.142  

While  detailed  information  about  the  SSF’s  structure  remains  limited,  several  Chinese  military  experts  have 
commented  on  the  new  initiative.  For  example,  a  former  officer  Song  Zhongping  stated  that  the  SFF  will  be 
composed of three separate forces: space troops (recognition and navigation satellites), cyber troops (offensive and 
defensive  hacking),  and  electronic  warfare  forces  (jamming  and  disrupting  radars  and  communications). 143 
Additionally, Rear Admiral Yin Zhuo of the PLA Navy and who is believed to have direct links to the SSF’s creation 
said in January 2016 that its main task will be ensuring the military’s local advantages in aerospace, space, cyber, 
and electromagnetic battlefields through operations such as target tracking and reconnaissance, satellite navigation, 
and  attack  and  defence  in  cyber  and  electromagnetic  spaces  –  the  underlying  goal  of which  should  be  attaining 
victory in future wars. Yin also believes the SSF will assume responsibilities in defending the civilian infrastructure to 
increase  the  security  of  China’s  financial  institutions  as  well  as  people’s  daily  lives  in  general.144  Indeed,  greater 
assimilation with the civilian sector seems essential in executing China’s cyber ambitions given the rapidly growing 
dependence on information technology as well as the potentially dangerous aspect of informatisation to the current 
regime. 

It  thus  appears  that  the  SSF  will  be  responsible  for  every  aspect  of  information  warfare,  including  intelligence, 
technical reconnaissance, cyber warfare, and electronic warfare, which are central to China’s strategic thinking on 
asymmetric  warfare  and  pre-emptive  attack.  In  a  larger  picture,  this  and  other  ongoing  military  reforms  aim  to 
streamline the military activities into a ‘combined wartime and peacetime military footing’, which should give the 
country an advantageous position should a war break out against a technologically advanced opponent, such as the 
US.145 Overall, this desired dominance in the information space forms an essential part of China’s strategic thinking, 
which  sees  paralysing  and  sabotaging  the  enemy’s  operational  and  command  systems  as  a  key  to  achieving 
dominance in all other domains, air, sea, and land.146  

Inevitably,  the  creation  of  the  SSF  and  other  radical  changes  in  the  structure  of  the  PLA  have  brought  about  a 
reshuffling  difficult  to  follow.  Announced  in  February  2016,  the  previous  seven  military  area  commands  were 
regrouped  into  five  geographical  theatre  commands.  This  also  meant  a  reorganisation  of  the  General  Staff 
Department, under which 3/PLA and 4/PLA have so far operated, into the Joint General Staff Department, which will 
not have operational control of the army unlike its predecessor.147 Regarding the SSF, it will most likely draw forces 
from both 3/PLA and 4/PLA, as well as 1/PLA (operations), 2/PLA (intelligence), and the Informatisation Department, 
which is expected to move under the SSF entirely. This means a significant increase in efficiency when it comes to 
China’s cyber-related operations, as computer network attack and defence, technical reconnaissance, espionage, 
electronic countermeasures, intelligence, as well as majority of communications and information management will 
all be operating under one command.148  

Overall,  the  creation  of  the  SSF  is  a  landmark  development,  giving  a  clear  indication  of  the  PLA’s  focus  on 
informationised  warfare,  which  raises  questions  of  whether  these  actions  should  be  seen  as  provocative 

                                                                 
142 Costello, John. ‘China Finally Centralizes Its Space, Cyber, Information Forces.’ The Diplomat. 20 Jan. 2016. Accessed 24 Aug. 
2016. <http://thediplomat.com/2016/01/china-finally-its-centralizes-space-cyber-information-forces/>. 
143 Costello, 2016, The Jamestown Foundation. Original comments in Chinese are available at 
<http://mil.huanqiu.com/observation/2016-01/8392698.html>.  
144 Costello, 2016, The Jamestown Foundation. Original comments in Chinese are available at 
<http://military.people.com.cn/n1/2016/0105/c1011-28011251.html>.  
145 Costello, 2016, The Jamestown Foundation. 
146 Costello, 2016, The Diplomat. 
147 Ying, Yu Lin. ’The Implications of China's Military Reforms.’ The Diplomat. 7 Mar. 2016. Accessed 24 Aug. 2016. 
<http://thediplomat.com/2016/03/the-implications-of-chinas-military-reforms/>. 
 
148 Costello, 2016, The Jamestown Foundation. 

25 

preparations  for  an  overt  conflict,  or  merely  to  provide  China  with  more  credible  deterrence  in  the  face  of 
technologically  advanced  Western  powers.  The  developments  must  also  be  seen  in  political  context,  as  it  shifts 
control  over  China’s  most  powerful  and  strategically  important  weapons  from  the  army  to  the  Central  Military 
Commission, headed by President Xi.149  

 

Other than the PLA cyber units, various other groups operate from the Chinese cyberspace. Research by Jeffrey 
Kwong  in  2012  suggested  that  most  of  the  openly  confirmed  attacks  actually  originated  from  such  independent 
hacktivist units. Even though the assertion was made more than four years ago, it should not be disregarded as it 
relies on data from 1990 to 2012 and thus enables the assertion of an interesting theory: whenever the Chinese lack 
influence  over  foreign  threats,  attacks  by  independent  units  increase  China’s  credibility  in  the  opponent’s  eyes. 
Kwong brings out  clear evidence that the government’s threats against  another country are directly followed by 
widespread cyber-attacks to increase domestic and international credibility. Since the groups are uncontrolled and 
more nationalistic than the state, they create a risk of domestic unrest if the government should decide to retreat 
from its demands. Therefore, the Chinese government faces a double threat from cyber-attacks: adopting too mild 
approach against the opponent could invite the attacker groups to turn against China to express displeasure; while 
letting the groups go completely untamed creates a risk of falling into a bilateral conflict with another state.150  

An example of such a group is the Red Hacker Alliance. The group has not been widely covered in the media, but it 
is believed to have a membership of several hundred thousand. It has been noted that the government tolerates 
and most likely even supports the group because of the large quantity of stolen data available from its members. At 
the same time, while the Red Hacker Alliance is afraid of a  crackdown on its activities, the government  fears an 
online rebellion by the hacktivists if it decides to oppose them.151 Overall, it is an intriguing paradox that the Chinese 
government needs to address. However, despite the risk of becoming malicious against the motherland itself, or the 
chance of cyber incidents spiralling out of control, the groups have efficiently proven their value and are thus unlikely 
to fall under more serious control by the government.  

Slightly  different  from  the  above  described  organs  is  the  so-called  ‘cyber  militias’,  which  consist  of  hackers,  IT 
companies,  scientists,  network  engineers,  foreign  language  speakers,  and  others  with  useful  skills.  Their  main 
mission is to take part in military exercises as part of the National Emergency Drill Structure. However, they are not 
directly managed by the PLA in order to avoid the possible ambiguity over their combatant status and activities.152 
The cyber militias are seen as part of the effort to enhance civil-military cooperation within the country and were 
even  impliedly  provided  with  a  strategic  impetus  in  the  civilian  15-year  strategy  issued  in  2006.153  Contrary  to 
popular  belief,  the  groups  tend  to  have  a  rather  defensive  nature,  and  conduct  training  missions  for  the  PLA 
operators  and  research  on  cyber  warfare.154  Consisting  of  over  eight  million  citizens,  all  related  to  Chinese 
developmental programmes,  it is a powerful force. While open source information on who controls such a large 
number of people remains unavailable, it is believed that the  cyber militia are commanded through hierarchical 
layers  of  administration  similar  to  a  regular  militia.  However,  the  extent  of  the  cyber  militia’s  connections  and 

                                                                 
149 For a detailed overview of the nature and the impact of the ongoing military reforms, see Allen, Kenneth, Dennis J. Blasko, 
and John F. Corbett. ‘The PLA’s New Organizational Structure: What Is Known, Unknown and Speculation (Part 1).’ The 
Jamestown Foundation. 4 Feb. 2016. Accessed 25 Aug. 2016. 
<http://www.jamestown.org/single/?tx_ttnews%5Btt_news%5D=45069&no_cache=1#.V8gxG7t95aQ>. 
150 Kwong, Jeffrey. ‘State Use of nationalist Cyber Attacks as Credible Signals in Crisis Bargaining,’ pp. 30-32 in Lindsay, 2012. 
151 Feakin, 2013, pp. 4-5 and Henderson, Scott. ‘Beijing’s Rising Hacker Stars: How Does Mother China React?’ IO Sphere (2008): 
pp. 25-30. <http://fmso.leavenworth.army.mil/documents/Beijings-rising-hackers.pdf>. 
152 Stevens, Tim. ‘Breaching Protocol: The Threat of Cyberespionage.’Academia.edu. Accessed 24 Aug. 2016. 
<http://www.academia.edu/1158361/Breaching_Protocol_The_Threat_of_Cyberespionage>. 
153 Sheldon, Robert and Joe McReynolds. ‘Chapter 8: Civil-Military Integration and Cybersecurity,’ p. 196 in Lindsay et al., 2015. 
154 Sheldon, Robert and Steve Gilnert. ‘Civil-Military Integration and China’s Cyberspace Operations: Investigating PLA Cyber 
Militias,’ p. 24 in Lindsay, 2012. However, as later research suggests, the cyber militia do sometimes conduct cyber attacks and 
cyber espionage if necessary. See more at Sheldon and McReynolds, 2015, p. 200. 

26 

accountability to the government and the PLA remain unclear and deserves further examination.155  

As  a  concluding  remark  on  the  military’s  role  regarding  China’s  overall  use  of  cyberspace,  it  has  undoubtedly 
achieved much in coming closer to its ultimate goal of mastering information – both foreign and domestic – to ensure 
the state’s stability and exploit the opportunities arising from cyber espionage. Having worked hand in hand with 
the government, 3/PLA and 4/PLA had so far played a critical role in executing China’s overall ambition to catch up 
with Western technological development, and also obtain economic and political advantage in order to increase 
China’s international bargaining power. As the responsibilities of these two departments have likely been integrated 
into the Strategic Support Force, the efficiency of China’s state-led cyber operations is further expected to increase 
and the intense focus on information warfare indicates China’s ability to adapt its military force to the changing 
nature  of  international  conflict.  Simultaneously,  the  patriotic  hacking  units  are  in  a  way  trying  to  help  the 
government, but also risk harming China’s reputation and other countries’ willingness to cooperate, which is already 
hampered  by  the  PLA’s  cyber  units’  activities.  Yet,  the  Chinese  government  is  unlikely  to  put  a  stop  to  further 
development  of  cyber  espionage  and  cyber  warfare  capabilities,  and  perhaps  rightfully  so,  looking  at  similar 
surveillance activities of its main competitors and potential adversaries on the international arena.  

 

 

                                                                 
155 For a detailed overview on cyber militia, see Sheldon and McReynolds, 2015.  

27 

Clarke, Richard A., and Robert K. Knake. Cyber War: The Next Threat to National Security and What to Do About It. 

Ecco, 2010. 

Hannas, William C., James C. Mulvenon, and Anna B. Puglisi. Chinese Industrial Espionage: Technology Acquisition 

and Military Modernization. Routledge, 2013. 

Inkster, Nigel. China's Cyber Power. Routledge, 2016. 

Jiang Zemin Wenxuan (Jiang Zemin Anthology). Beijing, 2006, cited in Chang, 2014, p. 19. 

Kamphausen, Roy, David Lai, and Travis Tanner (eds). Assessing the People’s Liberation Army in the Hu Jintao Era, 

Strategic Studies Institute, 2014, cited in Chang, 2014, p. 20. 

Lindsay, Jon R., Tai Ming Cheung, and Derek S. Reveron (eds) China and Cybersecurity: Espionage, Strategy and 

Politics in the Digital Domain. Oxford University Press, 2015. 

Lu Daohai, Information Operations. PLA Arts and Literature Press, 1999, p. 324. Cited in Mulvenon, James. ‘Chapter 

8: PLA Computer Network Operations: Scenarios, Doctrine, Organizations, and Capability,’ in Kamphausen, 
Roy, David Lai, and Andrew Scobell (eds) Beyond the Strait: PLA Missions other than Taiwan. Strategic Studies 
Institute, 2009, p. 260. 

Peng Guangqian and Yao Youzhi, ‘Chapter 20: Rise of the High-Tech Local War and Its Historic Status,’ in The 

Science of Military Strategy, Academy of Military Science Strategic Research Department. Beijing, 2005, cited 
in Chang, 2014, p. 25. 

Qiao, Liang, and Wang Xiangsui. Unrestricted Warfare. PLA Literature and Arts House, 1999. 

Thomas, Timothy L. ‘Chapter 20: Nation-State Cyber Strategies: Examples from China and Russia,’ in Kramer, 

Franklin D., Stuart H. Starr, and Larry K. Wentz (eds) Cyberpower and National Security, National Defense 
University Press and Potomac Books Inc., 2009. Accessed via 
<http://ctnsp.dodlive.mil/files/2014/03/Cyberpower-I-Chap-20.pdf>. 

Thomas, Timothy L. The Dragon's Quantum Leap. Foreign Military Studies Office, 2009. 

Thomas, Timothy L. Three Faces of the Cyber Dragon. Foreign Military Studies Office, 2012. 

Creemers, Rogier. ‘Cyber-Leninism: History, Political Culture and the Internet in China.’ (2015). Draft available at 

<http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2589884>. 

Dewar, Robert S. The ‘Triptych of Cyber Security’: A Classification of Active Cyber Defence. Proceedings of 6th 

International Conference on Cyber Conflict, Tallinn. 2014, pp. 7-21. 
<https://ccdcoe.org/cycon/2014/proceedings/d1r1s9_dewar.pdf>. 

Giles, Keir, and William Hagestad II. Divided by a Common Language: Cyber Definitions in Chinese, Russian and 

English. Proceedings of 5th International Conference on Cyber Conflict, Tallinn. 2013. NATO CCDCOE 
Publications. <https://ccdcoe.org/publications/2013proceedings/d3r1s1_giles.pdf>. 

Henderson, Scott. ‘Beijing’s Rising Hacker Stars: How Does Mother China React?’ IO Sphere (2008): pp. 25-30. 

<http://fmso.leavenworth.army.mil/documents/Beijings-rising-hackers.pdf>. 

28 

Inkster, Nigel. ‘Chinese Intelligence in the Cyber Age.’ Survival: Global Politics and Strategy 55(1) (2013): pp. 45-66, 

<https://www.iiss.org/en/publications/survival/sections/2013-94b0/survival--global-politics-and-strategy-
february-march-2013-3db7/55-1-05-inkster-936c>. 

Jiang, Li, Zhang Xiaolan, and Yu Feibao. ‘Deadlock in International Cooperation Regarding Cyber Security and Its 
Solutions.’ Xiandai Guoji Guanxi (Contemporary International Relations) 9 (2013), cited in Liffran, Camille. 
‘Chinese Perspectives on Cyber Security and International Relations.’ China's Expanding Cyberspace (2014): 
pp. 5-7. <http://www.ecfr.eu/page/-/ChinaAnalysisEng_June2014.pdf>. 

Serger, Sylvia Schwaag, and Magnus Breidne. ‘China’s Fifteen-Year Plan for Science and Technology: An 

Assessment.’ Asia Policy 4 (2007): 135-64. <http://docplayer.net/191328-China-s-fifteen-year-plan-for-
science-and-technology-an-assessment.html>. 

2016 Global R&D Funding Forecast. Report by Industrial Research Institute, (2016). 

<https://www.iriweb.org/sites/default/files/2016GlobalR%26DFundingForecast_2.pdf>.  

APT1: Exposing One of China’s Cyber Espionage Units. Report by Mandiant, (2013). 

<https://www.fireeye.com/content/dam/fireeye-www/services/pdfs/mandiant-apt1-report.pdf>. 

Chang, Amy. Warring State: China’s Cybersecurity Strategy. Report by the Center for a New American Security, 

2014. <http://www.cnas.org/sites/default/files/publications-
pdf/CNAS_WarringState_Chang_report_010615.pdf>. 

China Global Threat Report. Report by CrowdStrike, (2015). <https://www.crowdstrike.com/wp-
content/uploads/Global_Threat_Report-2015/China-2015/Infographic_China-2015.html>. 

CrowdStrike Intelligence Report: Putter Panda. Report by CrowdStrike, (2014). <https://cdn0.vox-

cdn.com/assets/4589853/crowdstrike-intelligence-report-putter-panda.original.pdf>.  

Easton, Ian, and Mark A. Stokes. China’s Electronic Intelligence Satellite Developments. Report by Project 2049 

Institute, (2011). 
<https://project2049.net/documents/china_electronic_intelligence_elint_satellite_developments_easton_st
okes.pdf>. 

Ernst, Dieter. Indigenous Innovation and Globalization – the Challenge for China’s Standardization Strategy. Report 

by the East-West Center, (2010). 
<http://www.eastwestcenter.org/fileadmin/stored/pics/Ernst%20EWC%20NBR%20Report%20%2011%2015
%2010.pdf>. 

Feakin, Tobias. Enter the Cyber Dragon. Report by the Australian Strategic Policy Institute, (2013). 

<https://www.aspi.org.au/publications/special-report-enter-the-cyber-dragon-understanding-chinese-
intelligence-agencies-cyber-capabilities/10_42_31_AM_SR50_chinese_cyber.pdf>. 

Grauman, Brigid. Cyber-security: The Vexed Question of Global Rules. Report by Security & Defence Agenda, 

(2012). 

Group of Governmental Experts on Developments in the Field of Information and Telecommunications in the 

Context of International Security. Report of the United Nations General Assembly, (2013). 
<http://www.un.org/ga/search/view_doc.asp?symbol=A/68/98>. 

Hsu, Kimberly, and Craig Murray. China and International Law in Cyberspace. Report by the U.S.-China Economic 

and Security Review Commission, (2014). 
<http://origin.www.uscc.gov/sites/default/files/Research/China%20International%20Law%20in%20Cyberspa
ce.pdf>. 

29 

International Code of Conduct for Information Security. Report of the United Nations General Assembly, (2015). 

<https://ccdcoe.org/sites/default/files/documents/UN-150113-CodeOfConduct.pdf>. 

Lindsay, Jon. China and Cybersecurity: Political, Economic, and Strategic Dimensions. Report by the University of 

California Institute on Global Conflict and Cooperation, (2012). 
<https://www.usnwc.edu/Academics/Faculty/Derek-Reveron/Documents/China-and-Cybersecurity-
Workshop-Report-final.aspx>. 

Red Line Drawn: China Recalculates Its Use of Cyber Espionage. Report by FireEye, (2016). 

<https://www.fireeye.com/content/dam/fireeye-www/current-threats/pdfs/rpt-china-espionage.pdf>. 

Stokes, Mark A. The PLA General Staff Department Third Department Second Bureau. Report by Project 2049 

Institute, (2015). 
<http://www.project2049.net/documents/Stokes_PLA_General_Staff_Department_Unit_61398.pdf>. 

Stokes, Mark A., Jenny Lin, and Russell Hsiao. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army Signals Intelligence and Cyber 

Reconnaissance Infrastructure. Report by Project 2049 Institute, (2011). 
<https://project2049.net/documents/pla_third_department_sigint_cyber_stokes_lin_hsiao.pdf>. 

The Cyber Index: International Security Trends and Realities. Report by the United Nations Institute for 

Disarmament Research, (2013).  <http://www.unidir.org/files/publications/pdfs/cyber-index-2013-en-
463.pdf>. 

Information Office of the State Council. The Diversified Employment of China's Armed Forces. Apr. 2013. Accessed 

23 Aug. 2016. <http://www.nti.org/media/pdfs/China_Defense_White_Paper_2013.pdf>. 

North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. Cyber Defence Pledge. 8 July 2016. Accessed 18 Aug. 2016. 

<http://www.nato.int/cps/en/natohq/official_texts_133177.htm>. 

‘China’s Perspective on Building a Peaceful, Secure, Open and Cooperative Cyberspace.’ UNIDIR Conference. 10 

Feb. 2014. Accessed 24 Aug. 2016. <http://www.unidir.ch/files/conferences/pdfs/a-cyber-code-of-conduct-
the-best-vehicle-for-progress-en-1-963.pdf>. 

Fu, Jingguang. ‘Policies and Practices on Network Security of MIIT.’ Workshop on Cybersecurity Policy 

Development in the APEC Region. Hangzhou. 27 Mar. 2011. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. 
<http://mddb.apec.org/Documents/2011/TEL/TEL43-SPSG-WKSP/11_tel43_spsg_wksp_004.pdf>. 

Zhao, Xiaofan. ‘Practice and Strategy of Informatisation in China.’ State Council Informatisation Office Department 

of IT Application Promotion. Shanghai. 18 Oct. 2006. Accessed 19 Aug. 2016. 
<http://unpan1.un.org/intradoc/groups/public/documents/APCITY/UNPAN025040.pdf>. 

‘An Open Letter to Lu Wei and the Cyberspace Administration of China.’Greatfire.org. 26 Jan. 2015. Accessed 23 

Aug. 2016. <https://en.greatfire.org/blog/2015/jan/open-letter-lu-wei-and-cyberspace-administration-
china>. 

‘China Headed to Overtake EU, US in Science & Technology Spending, OECD Says.’ OECD. 12 Nov. 2014. Accessed 

22 Aug. 2016. <http://www.oecd.org/newsroom/china-headed-to-overtake-eu-us-in-science-technology-
spending.htm>. 

30 

‘China Internet Users.’ Internet Live Stats, 2016. Web. Accessed 18 Aug. 2016. 

<http://www.internetlivestats.com/internet-users/china/>. 

‘China Launches First Cybersecurity Organisation.’ Cyber Security Review. 26 Mar. 2016. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. 

<http://www.cybersecurity-review.com/china-launches-first-cybersecurity-organisation-report>. 

‘Chinese Media Slam Cyber-Hacking Report.’ VOA. 21 Feb. 2013. Accessed 24 Aug. 2016. 

<http://www.voanews.com/content/china-media-slam-cyber-hacking-report/1607835.html>. 

‘Chinese President Xi Jinping Calls for International Cooperation on Cyberspace Security.’ The Economic Times. 19 

Nov. 2014. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. <http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/international/world-
news/chinese-president-xi-jinping-calls-for-international-cooperation-on-cyberspace-
security/articleshow/45205445.cms>. 

‘Cyberspace.’ Defense Technical Information Center of the US Department of Defense. Accessed 19 Aug. 2016. 

<http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/dod_dictionary/data/c/10160.html>. 

‘Gross Domestic Spending on R&D.’ OECD Data. 2016. Accessed 22 Aug. 2016. <https://data.oecd.org/rd/gross-

domestic-spending-on-r-d.htm>. 

‘Infographic: Achievements of the 2nd WIC.’ China Daily. 21 Dec. 2015. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. 

<http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/business/tech/2015-12/21/content_22761073.htm>. 

‘SIPRI Military Expenditure Database.’ SIPRI. 2016. Accessed 19 Aug. 2016. 
<http://www.sipri.org/research/armaments/milex/milex_database>. 

‘State Administration for Science, Technology and Industry for National Defense (SASTIND).’ Nuclear Threat 

Initiative. 1 Oct. 2011. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. <http://www.nti.org/learn/facilities/781/>. 

‘The Obama-Xi Cyber Mirage.’ The Wall Street Journal. 27 Sept. 2015. Accessed 19 Aug. 2016. 

<http://www.wsj.com/articles/the-obama-xi-cyber-mirage-1443387248>. 

‘Xi Jinping: Ba wo guo cong wangluo daguo jianshe chengwei wangluo qiangguo (Xi Jinping: From a big internet 

country to a powerful internet country).’ Xinhuanet. 28 Feb. 2014. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. 
<http://news.xinhuanet.com/info/2014-02/28/c_133148804.htm>. 

‘China: Summary of the Tenth Five-Year Plan (2001-2005) – Information Industry’. Available at 

<http://unpan1.un.org/intradoc/groups/public/documents/apcity/unpan022769.pdf>. 

‘Jing Xi Jinping zhuxi pizhun zhongyang junwei yinfa ‘guanyu jinyibu jiaqiang jundui xinxi anquan gongzuo de yijian 

(Chairman of the Central Military Commission Xi Jinping approved the issuance of ‘Opinion on Further 
Strengthening Military Information Security Work’),’ Jiefangjun bao (PLA Daily), 7 Oct. 2014. 
<http://news.xinhuanet.com/mil/2014- 10/07/c_1112726181.htm>, cited in Chang, 2014, p. 19. 

Allen, Kenneth, Dennis J. Blasko, and John F. Corbett. ‘The PLA’s New Organizational Structure: What Is Known, 

Unknown and Speculation (Part 1).’ The Jamestown Foundation. 4 Feb. 2016. Accessed 25 Aug. 2016. 
<http://www.jamestown.org/single/?tx_ttnews%5Btt_news%5D=45069&no_cache=1#.V8gxG7t95aQ>. 

Austin, Greg. ‘Cyber Security: All China's Fault?’ The Globalist. 30 Aug. 2015. Accessed 24 Aug. 2016. 

<http://www.theglobalist.com/cyber-diplomacy-us-china-problem/>. 

Cheng, Joey. ‘Cyber Conflict Escalates: Second Chinese PLA Hacking Group Accused.’ Defense Systems. 10 June 
2014. Accessed 24 Aug. 2016. <http://defensesystems.com/articles/2014/06/10/chinese-military-hacker-
unit-crowdstrike.aspx>. 

Chin, Josh. ‘China Says New Internet Regulations Won't Increase Blocking of Foreign Websites.’ The Wall Street 

Journal. 30 Mar. 2016. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. <http://www.wsj.com/articles/china-says-new-internet-
regulations-wont-increase-blocking-of-foreign-websites-1459351655>. 

31 

Costello, John. ‘China Finally Centralizes Its Space, Cyber, Information Forces.’ The Diplomat. 20 Jan. 2016. 
Accessed 24 Aug. 2016. <http://thediplomat.com/2016/01/china-finally-its-centralizes-space-cyber-
information-forces/>. 

Costello, John. ‘The Strategic Support Force: China's Information Warfare Service.’ The Jamestown Foundation. 8 

Feb. 2016. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. 
<http://www.jamestown.org/programs/chinabrief/single/?tx_ttnews%5Btt_news%5D=45075&cHash=97580
54639ab2cb6bc7868e96736b6cb#.V6RA_Lt95aQ>. 

Creemers, Rogier. ‘Cybersecurity and Informatisation Leading Group: Names and Documents.’ China Copyright and 

Media. 13 Mar. 2014. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. 
<https://chinacopyrightandmedia.wordpress.com/2014/03/13/cybersecurity-and-informatization-leading-
group-names-and-documents/>. 

Creemers, Rogier. ‘People's Republic of China Cybersecurity Law (Second Reading Draft).’ China Copyright and 

Media. 6 July 2016. Accessed 18 Aug. 2016. 
<https://chinacopyrightandmedia.wordpress.com/2016/07/06/peoples-republic-of-china-cybersecurity-law-
second-reading-draft/>. 

Gu, Fa, „State Council vigorously promotes the development of information technology and to effectively protect 

the information security.’ 2012, cited in Giles and Hagestad, 2013, pp. 12-13. 

Harold, Scott Warren. ‘The U.S.-China Cyber Agreement: A Good First Step.’ RAND Corporation. July 2016. 

Accessed 19 Aug. 2016. <http://www.rand.org/blog/2016/08/the-us-china-cyber-agreement-a-good-first-
step.html>. 

Huntsman, Jon. ‘The 100 Most Influential People: Lu Wei.’ Time. 16 Apr. 2015. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. 

<http://time.com/3823285/lu-wei-2015-time-100/>. 

Hurwitz, Roger. ‘A Scene from the Road to Cyber Governance: The Budapest Cyberspace Conference.’ MUNK 

School of Global Affairs. 26 Feb. 2013. Accessed 19 Aug. 2016. <http://www.cyberdialogue.ca/2013/02/a-
scene-from-the-road-to-cyber-governance-the-budapest-cyberspace-conference/>. 

Jiang, Zemin, ‘Lun zhongguo xinxi jishu chanye fazhan (On China’s Information Technology Industry Development),’ 

Xinhua, 22 Apr. 2009. <http://news.xinhuanet.com/newscenter/2009-04/22/content_11232665_1.htm.>, 
cited in Chang, 2014 p.16. 

Lococo, Edmond, and Keith Zhai. ‘China Seeks Global Internet Influence at CEO Forum on Canal Bank.’ Bloomberg 

Technology. 18 Nov. 2014. Accessed 18 Aug. 2016. <http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2014-11-
18/china-seeks-global-internet-influence-at-ceo-forum-on-canal-bank>. 

Lu, Chuanying. ‘China's Emerging Cyberspace Strategy.’ The Diplomat. 24 May 2016. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. 

<http://thediplomat.com/2016/05/chinas-emerging-cyberspace-strategy/>. 

Rountree, Florence. ‘Information management and internet regulation in China.’ China's Expanding 
Cyberspace (2014): pp. 11-13. <http://www.ecfr.eu/page/-/ChinaAnalysisEng_June2014.pdf>. 

Sanger, David E., and Nicole Perlroth. ‘N.S.A. Breached Chinese Servers Seen as Security Threat.’ The New York 

Times. 22 Mar. 2014. Accessed 18 Aug. 2016. <http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/23/world/asia/nsa-
breached-chinese-servers-seen-as-spy-peril.html?_r=0>. 

Segal, Adam. ‘China Moves Forward on Cybersecurity Policy.’ Council on Foreign Relations. 24 July 2012. Accessed 

22 Aug. 2016. <http://blogs.cfr.org/asia/2012/07/24/china-moves-forward-on-cybersecurity-policy/>. 

Segal, Adam. ‘The Deepening Divide in U.S.-China Cyber Relations.’ The National Interest. 29 Oct. 2014. Accessed 

18 Aug. 2016. <http://nationalinterest.org/blog/the-buzz/the-deepening-divide-us-china-cyber-relations-
11568>. 

32 

Segal, Adam. ‘What to Do About China’s New Cybersecurity Regulations?’ Council on Foreign Relations. 2 Feb. 

2015. Accessed 22 Aug. 2016. <http://blogs.cfr.org/cyber/2015/02/02/what-to-do-about-chinas-new-
cybersecurity-regulations/>. 

Sisi, Wei, and Qiu Wei. ‘China’s Internet Censors Have a Choral Anthem and It's Everything You Want It to 

Be.’ Quartz. 16 Feb. 2015. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. <http://qz.com/345377/chinas-internet-censors-have-a-
choral-anthem-and-its-everything-you-want-it-to-be/>. 

Stark, Jill. ‘US Follows Australia in Naming Huawei as a Possible Security Threat.’ The Sydney Morning Herald. 9 Oct. 

2012. Accessed 18 Aug. 2016. <http://www.smh.com.au/it-pro/security-it/us-follows-australia-in-naming-
huawei-as-a-possible-security-threat-20121007-277ad.html>. 

Stevens, Tim. ‘Breaching Protocol: The Threat of Cyberespionage.’Academia.edu. Accessed 24 Aug. 2016. 

<http://www.academia.edu/1158361/Breaching_Protocol_The_Threat_of_Cyberespionage>. 

Thomas, Timothy L. ‘Information Security Thinking: A Comparison of U.S., Russian, And Chinese Concepts.’ Foreign 

Military Studies Office Publications. July 2001. Accessed 19 Aug. 2016. 
<http://fmso.leavenworth.army.mil/documents/infosecu.htm>. 

Tiezzi, Shannon. ‘China (Finally) Admits to Hacking.’ The Diplomat. 18 Mar. 2015. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. 

<http://thediplomat.com/2015/03/china-finally-admits-to-hacking/>. 

Tiezzi, Shannon. ‘US Indicts 5 PLA Officers For Hacking, Economic Espionage.’ The Diplomat. 20 May 2014. 

Accessed 19 Aug. 2016. <http://thediplomat.com/2014/05/us-indicts-5-pla-officers-for-hacking-economic-
espionage/>. 

Wang Yukai, ‘Zhongyang wangluo anquan yu xinxihua lingdao xiaozu de youlai ji qi yinxiang (The Origins and 

Influence of the Central Network Security and Informatization Leading Small Group),’ Zhongguo 
Gongchandang Xinwen Wang (Communist Party of China News Network), 3 Mar. 2014. http://theory. 
people.com.cn/n/2014/0303/c40531-24510897.html>, cited in Chang, 2014, p. 16.  

Xue Ruihan, ‘Jianli jianqian guojia wangluo he xinxi anquan chang xiao jizhi (Establish and improve the national 
network and information security long-term mechanisms),’ Renmin Wang (People’s Daily Online), 17 Apr. 
2014, <http://leaders.people.com.cn/n/2014/0417/c347621- 24909496.html>, cited in Chang, 2014, p. 17. 

Yao, Jianing. ‘PLA Cyberspace Strategic Intelligence Research Center Founded.’ China's Military. 30 June 2014. 

Accessed 24 Aug. 2016. <http://eng.chinamil.com.cn/news-channels/china-military-news/2014-
06/30/content_6025789.htm>. 

Ying, Yu Lin. ’The Implications of China's Military Reforms.’ The Diplomat. 7 Mar. 2016. Accessed 24 Aug. 2016. 

<http://thediplomat.com/2016/03/the-implications-of-chinas-military-reforms/>. 

Zhang, Rui. ‘China Headlines: Xi Slams 'double Standards,' Advocates Shared Future in Cyberspace.’ CCTV.COM. 17 

Dec. 2015. Accessed 23 Aug. 2016. <http://english.cntv.cn/2015/12/17/ARTI1450334752126739.shtml>. 

Zhu, Ningzhu. ‘Xi Jinping Leads Internet Security Group.’ Xinhuanet. 27 Feb. 2014. Accessed 22 Aug. 2016. 

<http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/china/2014-02/27/c_133148273.htm>. 

Zhu, Yishi. ‘Hackers Find Holes Behind the Great Firewall.’ Hackers Find Holes Behind the Great Firewall. 21 Jan. 

2012. Accessed 22 Aug. 2016. <http://english.caixin.com/2012-01-21/100350690.html>. 

33 

1/PLA 

2/PLA 

3/PLA 

4/PLA 

CAC   

 

 

 

 

 

First (Operations) Department of the General Staff Department 

Second (Intelligence) Department of the General Staff Department 

Third (Technical) Department of the General Staff Department 

Fourth (Electronic Countermeasures and Radar) Department of the General Staff Department 

Cyberspace Administration of China 

CLSGISI   

Central Leading Small Group for Internet Security and Informatisation 

CNA   

 

computer network attack 

CNCERT   

National Computer Network Emergency Response Technical Team/Coordination Center of China 

CND   

CNE   

 

 

computer network defence 

computer network exploitation 

COSTIND 

Commission for Science, Technology and Industry for National Defense 

DoD   

ECM   

GSD   

ICANN 

ICT 

 

MIIT   

MPS   

MSS   

NPO   

NSA   

PLA 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Department of Defense of the United States 

electronic countermeasures 

People’s Liberation Army General Staff Department  

Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers 

information and communications technology  

Ministry of Industry and Information Technology 

Ministry of Public Security 

Ministry of State Security 

New Policy Opinion  

National Security Agency of the United States 

People’s Liberation Army 

SASTIND  

State Administration for Science, Technology and Industry for National Defence 

SCIO   

SCO   

SIGINT 

SIIO   

SILG   

SIPRI  

 

 

 

 

 

 

State Council’s Information Office 

Shanghai Cooperation Organisation 

signals intelligence 

State Internet Information Office 

State Informatisation Leading Group 

Stockholm International Peace Research Institute 

SNISCSG  

State Network and Information Security Coordination Small Group 

SSF 

 

 

People’s Liberation Army Strategic Support Force 

34 

