FIN7 Spear Phishing Campaign Targets Personnel Involved in SEC Filings
In late February 2017, FireEye as a Service (FaaS) identified a spear phishing campaign that appeared to be targeting personnel involved with United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings at various organizations. Based on multiple identified overlaps in infrastructure and the use of similar tools, tactics, and procedures (TTPs), we have high confidence that this campaign is associated with the financially motivated threat group tracked by FireEye as FIN7.
FIN7 is a financially motivated intrusion set that selectively targets victims and uses spear phishing to distribute its malware. We have observed FIN7 attempt to compromise diverse organizations for malicious operations – usually involving the deployment of point-of-sale malware – primarily against the retail and hospitality industries.
All of the observed intended recipients of the spear phishing campaign appeared to be involved with SEC filings for their respective organizations. Many of the recipients were even listed in their company’s SEC filings. The sender email address was spoofed as EDGAR <filings@sec.gov> and the attachment was named “Important_Changes_to_Form10_K.doc” (MD5: d04b6410dddee19adec75f597c52e386). An example email is shown in Figure 1.

Figure 1: Example of a phishing email sent during this campaign
We have observed the following TTPs with this campaign:
Thus far, we have directly identified 11 targeted organizations in the following sectors:
All these organizations are based in the United States, and many have international presences. As the SEC is a U.S. regulatory organization, we would expect recipients of these spear phishing attempts to either work for U.S.-based organizations or be U.S.-based representatives of organizations located elsewhere. However, it is possible that the attackers could perform similar activity mimicking other regulatory organizations in other countries.
We have not yet identified FIN7’s ultimate goal in this campaign, as we have either blocked the delivery of the malicious emails or our FaaS team detected and contained the attack early enough in the lifecycle before we observed any data targeting or theft.  However, we surmise FIN7 can profit from compromised organizations in several ways. If the attackers are attempting to compromise persons involved in SEC filings due to their information access, they may ultimately be pursuing securities fraud or other investment abuse. Alternatively, if they are tailoring their social engineering to these individuals, but have other goals once they have established a foothold, they may intend to pursue one of many other fraud types.
Previous FIN7 operations deployed multiple point-of-sale malware families for the purpose of collecting and exfiltrating sensitive financial data. The use of the CARBANAK malware in FIN7 operations also provides limited evidence that these campaigns are linked to previously observed CARBANAK operations leading to fraudulent banking transactions, ATM compromise, and other monetization schemes.
FireEye implemented a Community Protection Event – FaaS, Mandiant, Intelligence, and Products – to secure all clients affected by this campaign. In this instance, an incident detected by FaaS led to the deployment of additional detections by the FireEye Labs team after FireEye Labs Advanced Reverse Engineering quickly analyzed the malware. Detections were then quickly deployed to the suite of FireEye products.
The FireEye iSIGHT Intelligence MySIGHT Portal contains additional information based on our investigations of a variety of topics discussed in this post, including FIN7 and the POWERSOURCE and TEXTMATE malware. Click here for more information.
