M-Trends 2017: A View From the Front Lines
Every year Mandiant responds to a large number of cyber attacks, and 2016 was no exception. For our M-Trends 2017 report, we took a look at the incidents we investigated last year and provided a global and regional (the Americas, APAC and EMEA) analysis focused on attack trends, and defensive and emerging trends.
When it comes to attack trends, we’re seeing a much higher degree of sophistication than ever before. Nation-states continue to set a high bar for sophisticated cyber attacks, but some financial threat actors have caught up to the point where we no longer see the line separating the two. These groups have greatly upped their game and are thinking outside the box as well. One unexpected tactic we observed is attackers calling targets directly, showing us that they have become more brazen.
While there has been a marked acceleration of both the aggressiveness and sophistication of cyber attacks, defensive capabilities have been slower to evolve. We have observed that a majority of both victim organizations and those working diligently on defensive improvements are still lacking adequate fundamental security controls and capabilities to either prevent breaches or to minimize the damages and consequences of an inevitable compromise.
Fortunately, we’re seeing that organizations are becoming better are identifying breaches. The global median time from compromise to discovery has dropped significantly from 146 days in 2015 to 99 days 2016, but it’s still not good enough. As we noted in M-Trends 2016, Mandiant’s Red Team can obtain access to domain administrator credentials within roughly three days of gaining initial access to an environment, so 99 days is still 96 days too long.
We strongly recommend that organizations adopt a posture of continuous cyber security, risk evaluation and adaptive defense or they risk having significant gaps in both fundamental security controls and – more critically – visibility and detection of targeted attacks.
On top of our analysis of recent trends, M-Trends 2017 contains insights from our FireEye as a Service (FaaS) teams for the second consecutive year. FaaS monitors organizations 24/7, which gives them a unique perspective into the current threat landscape. Additionally, this year we partnered with law firm DLA Piper for a discussion of the upcoming changes in EMEA data protection laws.
You can learn more in our M-Trends 2017 report. Additionally, you can register for our live webinar on March 29, 2017, to hear more from our experts.
