
MySQL Penetration Testing with Nmap

In this article we are discussing MYSQL penetration testing using Nmap where you will learn how to retrieve database information such as database name, table’s records, username, password and etc.
MySQL is an open Source for Relational Database Management System that uses structured query language for generating database record.  
Lets Begin !!!
 Scanning for port 3306
 open the terminal and type following command to check mysql service is activated on targeted system or not, basically mysql service is activated on default port 3306.
nmap -sT 192.168.1.216
From given image you can observe port 3306 is open for mysql service, now lets enumerate it.

Now type another command to retrieve mysql information such as version, protocol and etc:
Above command try to connect to with MySQL server and hence prints information such as the protocol: 10, version numbers: 5.5.57 -0ubuntu0.14.04.1, thread ID: 159, status: auto commit, capabilities, and the password salt as shown in given below image.

This command will use dictionary for username and password and then try to match the username and password combination by making brute force attack against mysql.
 From given image you can observe that it found the valid credential root: toor. This credential will help in directly login into MYSQL server.

This command will fetch mysql users name which help of given argument mysqluser root and mysqlpass toor.
From given below image you can see we had found four user names: root, debian-sys-maint, sr, st.

This command will fetch mysql database name which help of given argument mysqluser root and mysqlpass toor.
 From given below image you can read the name of created database such as ignite

This command will also perform same task as above but retrieve database name using mysql query “show database”
 From given below image you can read the name of created database such as ignite

When we want to pass a value from one SQL statement to another SQL statement, then we store the value in a MySQL user-defined variable.
This command will fetch mysql variables name which help of given argument mysqluser root and mysqlpass toor.
From given image you can observe ON/OFF status for mysql variable.

This command will Dumps the password hashes from a MySQL server in a format suitable for cracking by tools such as John the Ripper.
From given image you can observe that it has dumped the hash value of passwords of respective user which we have enumerated above.

Sanjeet Kumar is a Information Security Analyst | Pentester | Researcher  Contact Here
