
Generating Scan Reports Using Nmap (Output Scan)

Hello friends, several times you might have used NMAP to performing Network scanning for enumerating active Port services of target machine but there are sometimes where we want to save the nmap scan. Nmap output scan is used to save the result of nmap scan in different formats.
Let’s Begin
Requirement
Attacker: Kali Linux
Target’s IP: 192.168.1.113
-oN <filespec> (normal output)
Nmap supports different formats for saving scan results. Depending on your needs, you can choose between a normal, XML, and grepable output. Normal mode saves the output as you see it on your screen, minus the runtime debugging information. This mode presents the findings in a well structured and easy-to-understand manner.

Now the scan is saved on desktop and we can access it using cat or text editor.
cat Desktop/nmap

-oX <filespec> (XML output)
XML stands for Extensible Markup Language is a usually known, tree-structured file format supported by Nmap.To save the scan results to a file in the XML format; add the option -oX <filename>, as shown in the following command:

Nmap also consist of additional debugging information when you save the scan results in this format.
An XML file, when generated, will contain the following information:
You can view the output in Gedit, It will look as shown below

We can also convert the Nmap scan which we saved in the xml format earlier to a portable html format using the given command:
xsltproc Desktop/nmap.xml –o nmap.html

Now open the nmap.html file in your favourite browser. Here is a screenshot depicting the converted html report. As you can see that it is very simply formatted and Easy to Read and Understand.

 -oS <filespec> (ScRipT KIdd|3 oUTpuT)
Script kiddie output is like interactive output, except that it is post-processed to better suit the l33t HaXXorZ, this option was made to make fun of script kiddies.

Now we can see that the file is saved on desktop which is as similar as normal scan output result.
cat Desktop/nmap

 -oG <filespec> (grepable output)
 The grepable format was included to help users extract information from logs without having to write a parser, as this format is meant to be read/parsed with standard UNIX tools. To save the scan results to a file in the grepable format, add the option -oG <filename>, as shown in the following command:

In grepable mode, each host is placed on the same line with the format <field name>:
<value>,and each field is separated by tabs (\t). The number of fields depends on what
Nmap options were used for the scan.
There are eight possible output fields:
cat Desktop/nmap

 -oA <basename> (Output to all formats)
Nmap supports the alias option -oA <basename>, which saves the scan results in all of the available formats—normal, XML, and grepable. The different files will be generated with the extensions .nmap, .xml, and .gnmap

Now we check the directory and find all the 3 types of file available to us.

Author: Sayantan Bera is a technical writer at hacking articles and cyber security enthusiast. Contact Here
