
Wifi Hacking with Evil Twin Attack using Linset

Note: For “Evil Twin Attack” , we are using Linset Tool in WiFiSlax operating system.
 Wifislax is an open source Linux operating system based and inspired by the Slackware Linux distribution. It’s main goal is to support the latest Wi-Fi technologies. The system provides out-of-the-box support for a wide range of wireless and wired network cards. In addition, it contains a large number of security and forensics tools, which transforms it into a pentesting (penetration testing) distro.
Open the wifislax terminal and type linset

Press 1 for wlan0 and go to the next screen

Now press 1 to scan all channels.

Now Scan Wireless Networks once press 1, it will show you all available wifi connection you can press Ctrl + C to cancel scanning

Now select target of the attack in my case I am selecting 7 Tenda_2 a window will appear like this:

Now choose the first option (hostapd) press 1 to select it and move to the next screen.

Now press enter to continue

Now select the type of check Handshake choose option 1.

There are several options for making Handshake on WPA / WPA2 targets, you can choose the number whatever, and I choose the number 1

Now it will disconnect all clients and capture the handshake, you will get a new window and you have to wait about 1 minute until you of the handshake.

Now choose option 1 and press enter

Now Select Web Interface press 1 to select the neutral web interface.

Finally we will choose the language choose option 1 for english.



After that there will be a process of making the Access Point False with the same name, so client “tenda_2” will have problems in connection and at the same time cannot be connected with Accesss Point ”tenda_2“. 
So the client will check the Wi-Fi connection and will connect to the Access Point”tenda_2″ are false,

Once connected sure the client will open Browser them to perform online activity and after the browser client is open there will be Login Page or a place to enter a password Wi-Fi.

When victim enter the password you can get wifi password in clear text. You can see this in the following screenshot:

