
3 Ways Extract Password Hashes from NTDS.dit

Hello friends!! Today we are going to discuss some forensic tool which is quite helpful in penetration testing to obtain NTLM password hashes from inside the host machine. As we know while penetration testing we get lots of stuff from inside the host machine and if you found some files like NTDS.dit and system hive then read this article to extract user information from those files.
Impacket is a collection of Python classes for working with network protocols. Impacket is focused on providing low-level programmatic access to the packets and for some protocols (e.g. SMB1-3 and MSRPC) the protocol implementation itself. The library provides a set of tools as examples of what can be done within the context of this library.
secretsdump.py: Performs various techniques to dump secrets from the remote machine without executing any agent there. For SAM and LSA Secrets (including cached creds) we try to read as much as we can from the registry and then we save the hives in the target system (%SYSTEMROOT%\Temp directory) and read the rest of the data from there. For DIT files, we dump NTLM hashes, Plaintext credentials (if available) and Kerberos keys using the DL_DRSGetNCChanges() method. It can also dump NTDS.dit via vssadmin executed with the smbexec/wmiexec approach.
Source: https://www.coresecurity.com/corelabs-research/open-source-tools/impacket
As described in its official definition we mainly need two files i.e. ntds.dit & System-hive for extracting NTLM password from inside it. Suppose while making penetration testing on host machine you found these file mention above then with help of following command you can extract hash password for admin account or for other accounts from inside it.
impacket-secretsdump -system /root/Desktop/NTDS/SYSTEM -ntds /root/Desktop/NTDS/ntds.dit LOCAL
-system: denotes path for system hive files (SYSTEM)
-ntds: denotes path for dit file (ntds.dit)
Now as you can observe it has dumped the NTLM password from inside ntd.dit file……………

With help of the online decrypting tool, we try to crack the password hash and as shown in the given image we got “123@password” from its result.

 The DSInternals PowerShell Module provides easy-to-use cmdlets that are built on top of the Framework. The main features include offline ntds.dit file manipulation and querying domain controllers through the Directory Replication Service (DRS) Remote Protocol.
Source: https://github.com/MichaelGrafnetter/DSInternals
This method is only applicable for Windows users and to extract NTLM hashes you can take help of following commands as described below.
 

From its result, you can observe that we have successfully extracted the NTLM hash and now you can decrypt it again as done above.

The first step is to extract the tables from the NTDS.dit file, we will use esedbexport by downloading libesedb-tools. Libesedb is a library to access the Extensible Storage Engine (ESE) Database File (EDB) format mainly known for its use in Microsoft Extension for prev1.edb file. The ESE database format is used in many different applications like Windows Search, Windows Mail, Exchange, Active Directory (NTDS.dit) and etc.
Source: https://github.com/libyal/libesedb/
For Latest Download link: https://github.com/libyal/libesedb/releases
Now type the following command to download libesedb library for installing esedbexport then extract the tar file as given below.
 
Now install the requirements with help of following commands:

Now the tool is installed, use it to dump the tables from the ntds.dit file.
This will make a new directory, named as “ntds.dit.export” with the extracted tables and here you will get two main tables i.e. datatable and link_table.

Now download ntdsxtract which is a forensic tool that is capable of extracting information related to user objects, group objects, computer objects, and deleted objects from NTDS.dit files.

Execute the following command to install all set-up files.

Extracting User Infomation and Password Hash
Now with help of all three files (Datatable, link_table, and system hive) it will be capable to dump user information and NT/LM password hashes. And you can execute the following command for obtaining NTLM password in the format of John the ripper.

As you can see it has extract user information and password hash as said above.

cat data/nthash.txt
So now you can crack this password hash with help of John the ripper.

Author: Sanjeet Kumar is a Information Security Analyst | Pentester | Researcher  Contact Here
