
Forensics Analysis of Pagefile and hibersys File in Physical Memory

in forensic investigation, Memory dump, pagefile and hiberfil files can provide us a lot of data. Memory dump is the file which contains the   information about the cause of the system crash.
From Forensics wiki
Pagefile.sys: Microsoft Windows uses a paging file, called pagefile.sys, to store frames of memory that do not current fit into physical memory. Although Windows supports up to 16 paging files, in practice normally only one is used.
Hiberfil.sys: hiberfil file stores the data when Microsoft windows computer system is on Hibernate mode.
These files are very useful for digital investigation because these files are not stored in physical Hard Disk.
First of all download Access Data FTK Imager from here so to capture the memory dump, click on capture memory option.

A new window will pop up. Click on browse button to select destination path. Select the option Include Pagefile & click on Capture Memory.



After completion of process, two files will be carved in the specified folder.

To Extract the Hiberfil file, click on add all attached devices.

Now click on the directory where windows are installed.  Select Root Folder and click on hiberfil.sys file.

Now right click on Hiberfil file & click on Export files.

select the desired folder where you want to save file


After process completion, it will show the message about exported file.

Now to analyze the Live RAM image file, we will use Belkasoft Evidence Center.
Now open Belkasoft Evidence Center.  Click on New Option. Click ok.

Enter all the details as well as root folder.

Now select the option Live RAM Image.

Now select the specified path to mount an image file. In File Name option select All Files (*) It will show the files.  Select Pagefile .sys.

Now select the option Analyze Data Source click on Next.

To select the supported data types to curve, Click on Select All option and click on Finish.

To analyze visited URL. Click on Chrome Live Ram

Similarly Click on Opera Live Ram.

Click on Found Pictures to see the images.

Same method use for hibersys file
Author: Mukul Mohan is a Microsoft Certified system engineer in security and messaging .He is a Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist with high level of expertise in handling server side operations based on windows platform. An experienced IT Technical Trainer with over 20 years’ Technical Training experience you can contact him at mukul@ignitetechnologies.in
