
Beginner Guide to Google Dorks (Part 1)

Google is a tool which helps in finding what one is looking for. Google operators are the terms provided to us for making our search easy and refined. These operators also termed as advanced Google operators provides the exact information. It reduces the time of search by instantly providing the information as we don’t have to move from one page to another one. These operators’ works as a query.
The basic syntax is->operator: term to be searched
Some of these operators are enlisted below:
e.g->intitle:hackingarticles
This query will return the pages which include the term “hackingarticles”in it.

e.g->inurl:hackingarticles
This query will return the pages which includes the term hackingarticles in its URL.

e.g->related:pentest
It will provide the result related to our query i.e.pentest

This operator will perform the task of locating a particular string in the text of the page .
e.g->allintext:rajchandel
The above given query will return only those pages which include the terms rajchandel in the text.

This operator will show the cached version of the webpage instead of the current one. This operator is followed by the URL of the page of which we want to have the cached version.

This operator provides the definition of a term as a result.
e.g->define:pentest.

This operator will help you to search the pages which links to other pages. This operator is provided a URL instead of a term to search.
e.g->link:www.kccitm.edu.in

This operator is slightly different from the intitle operator.
In intitle operator there was no compulsion of the term in the query to be present in the title whereas in allintitle operator this is must for the term in the query to be present in the title.
e.g->allintitle:hackingarticles

ADVANTAGES:
DISADVANTAGES
There are some operators which do not mix with another in the same query, for e.g, allintitle,allintext operators .
BASIC GUIDELINES TO USE GOOGLE OPERATORS
HOW HACKERS USE GOOGLE OPERATORS
Everyone  use google but most of them don’t know to make use of google.
Google operators are very famous among hackers and they take full benefit of it.
Sensitive information needed by hackers which are not easily retrieved through common search can be produced by the help of google operators.
If a hacker wants to retrieve a pdf file of a particular site then he/she has to use the operator “Filetype” with the URL as well  as the extension of the file.
A hacker can retrieve the site of the specified domain with the help of the operator “site”. This operator is followed by the separating colon and the  domain name.
It’s an easy tool for a hacker to get the exact outcome in just a click.
Thanks for reading the article. In next article we will be discussing about more google dorks with web penetration testing.
Author: Shrishtee Suman is Technical Writer in hacking Articles she is pursuing B. Tech in CS. Her interests are mainly in Web Penetration testing and vulnerability research. Contact Here
