
6 ways to Find Connected PC in your Network (Beginner Guide)

FastResolver is a small utility that resolves multiple host names into IP addresses and vice versa. You can simply type the list of IP addresses or host name that you want to resolve, or alternatively, you can specify IP addresses range that you want to scan. For local network, FastResolver also allows you to get the MAC address of all IP addresses that you scan. FastResolver is a multithreaded application, so it can resolve dozens of addresses within a few seconds.
Download Fastresolver form here and click fastresolver icon and select the IP range and click on ok.


Advanced IP Scanner is a fast, robust and easy-to-use free IP scanner for Windows. In a matter of seconds, this utility finds all the computers on your network and provides easy access to their various resources, whether HTTP, HTTPS, FTP or shared folders. With Advanced IP Scanner, you can wake up and shut down remote groups of Windows machines.
Download advanced IP scanner from here. Click on the icon and enter the IP range. Click on scan.

 SoftPerfect Network Scanner is a free multi-threaded IPv4/IPv6 scanner with a modern interface and many advanced features. It is intended for both system administrators and general users interested in computer security. The program pings computers, scans for listening TCP/UDP ports and discovers shared folders, including system and hidden ones.
Download SoftPerfect from here. Open the tool and enter the range to scan then click on start scanning.

 Angry IP scanner is a very fast IP address and port scanner. It can scan IP addresses in any range as well as any their ports. It is cross-platform and lightweight. Not requiring any installations, it can be freely copied and used anywhere.
Download Angry IPScanner from here. Open the tool and enter the range and then click on start.

Netdiscover is an active/passive address reconnaissance tool, mainly developed for those wireless networks without dhcp server, when you are wardriving. It can be also used on hub/switched networks.
Open Kali Linux terminal and write netdiscover. This will show the IPs of the systems in the network.

Nmap    
The software provides a number of features for probing computer networks, including host discovery and service and operating system detection. These features are extensible by scripts that provide more advanced service detection, vulnerability detection, and other features.
Download Nmap from here. Open the tool and then enter the range. then select the type of scan then click on scan.

Author: Aditya Mohan Mishra is a 10th class student. He likes to discover new facts and tools.
