
MS-SQL Penetration Testing lab Setup

Hello friends!! Today you will learn how to install and configure MS SQL server in windows 10 operating system.
Requirement: 
Configure SQL express setup
Open the 1st download file for SQL server installation and run as administration. Click on installation then go with New SQL server standalone installation.

To install sql server2012 follow given below three steps:
Here enable the check box for “I accept the license terms” and click on next.

Enable the check box for “Include SQL server product updates” to enhance the SQL server security and performance. It found 26 MB setup online which will get install when you will click on next.

Now it will start installing SQL server setup file on your system which takes some time. As soon as setup gets installed you will get new window screen of feature selection for your SQL server.

Feature Selection 
Now select the features you want to install from given image you can see I had enable check box for following features.
Click on next.

Instance Configuration
Specify the name and instance ID for instance of SQL server. The directory structure, registry structure, and service names all replicate the instance name and a specific instance ID. Instance ID becomes part of installation path.
After then click on next
You can select Default Instance also if an instance of SQL Server is not installed previously. It does not need a user to give the name of the instance to create a connection.

Database Engine Configuration
Specify Database Engine authentication for its security mode   
By default sa is administrator of MS SQL
Under the panel of authentication mode:
From given image you can observe that selected user will be part of administrator account of SQL server who has the unrestricted access over database engine.
After then click on next and next.

Your SQL server 2012 installation completed successfully, here you can check the status for installed features.

Now open the SQL server configuration manger where you will see left and right panel.
Click on protocol for SQLExpress in left panel and then after select protocol name “TCP/IP” in right panel.

Under IP Addresses specify TCP port 1433 tab, Click on Apply and Enable the TCP/IP.

Configure SQL Management Studio setup
Now open 2nd downloaded application for SQL server management setup and add new feature in it.

No updates for SQL server 2012 click on next.

Installation type
Since we have already created instance “SQLExpress” now we can add featured in SQLExpress instance of SQL server 2012.
From given below image you can observe the table for installed instance. Click on next 

Feature selection
For installation of instance feature enable the check box for Management tool basic as shared featured then click on next and next.

Management tool basic installation completed successfully, here you can check the status for installed features. Click on installation then go with New SQL server standalone installation.

Now login into SQL Server using admin credential and click on connect.

Once you are login into SQL server then Explore security folder and create a new login account for other users.

Enter the user name as I had given “ignite” and set password by choosing sql server authentication for this user.
From given image you can observe that master is default database.

Connect to server 
Run heidisql tool to connect with MS SQL Server through Ignite user as given below:
Network type: TCP/IP
Hostname /IP: 192.168.1.104
User: ignite
Password: 123456
Port: 1433
HeidiSQL is a useful and reliable tool designed for web developers using the popular MySQLserver, Microsoft SQL databases and PostgreSQL. It enables you to browse and edit data, create and edit tables, views, procedures, triggers and scheduled events.
Now click on open

Great!! We have successfully access the database system of MSSQL server. You can modify or create new table or new database and much more things.

Author: Sanjeet Kumar is a Information Security Analyst | Pentester | Researcher  Contact Here
