
Hack Wireless Network using Airgeddon

Airgeddon is a multi-use bash script for Linux systems to audit wireless networks.
Features
First of all clone  airgeddon from git by executing the following command on the terminal:
git clone https://github.com/v1s1t0r1sh3r3/airgeddon.git
Now to launch airgeddon enter the cloned folder and execute command:
./airgeddon.sh

After execution it will take some time to check if all the tools are installed  and then press Enter when asked.

Now it will ask you to select an interface .Select  wlan0  for wifi attacks as in my case I have selected 2.

After selecting wlan0 it will give many other options to choose .You have to select option 2 to enter into the monitor mode which puts the wlan0 interface in monitor mode to listen to all the available wifi connections  and then press ENTER key to continue further.

Now  again it will give some new options and you have to select option 5 to enter Handshake tools menu.

Now it will present you with more options  , now select option 5 to start capturing handshake and press ENTER when asked .Then it will again ask you to press ENTER for selecting the target so press ENTER. 

Now it will open a new window showing you the list of available targets  .Wait till your target wifi appears and then  hit ctrl^c.

Now it will show you the available target list, so select your target by entering the id  NO. given in the N column.  I have selected the network Tenda_3  by entering  6.After that press ENTER to continue.

Now it will ask to choose the attack type so select  2 for Deauth  aireplay attack which will first use deauth attack to disconnect all the client and then capture the handshake between the router and the client .Again  press ENTER to continue which will open two windows. 

As you can see below  two windows will open ,one is deauth attack window and otrher is capturing handshake .You have to wait till the WPA Handshake appears on the top right side of the window and then hit ctrl^c.


Then it will ask if you get the handshake ,so press y for YES and then it will ask the path of the capture file which is default set to the last capture so just press ENTER .

 Now you have to return to the main menu by pressing  7

Now you have to crack the password by selecting the 6 option.

Now it will ask to select a attack for breaking the password ,we will select dictionary attack to use a dictionary  and then it will  ask if you want to use already selected  BSSID so press  y and then it will ask to use the already selected BSSID so press y and it will again ask the path of dictionary file .Here you can give your custom made dictionary or default dictionary present in the kali .I have used password.lst in the  /usr/share/nmap/nselib/data/passwords.lst and then press ENTER key to continue.

Now it will start cracking with aircrack-ng and if the password is present in the dictionary it will show you the password  as you can see that KEY FOUND[87654321].

