
5 Ways to Surf Internet Anonymously in Android Phone

Proxy is the most trending and one of the most effective ways which hackers use to hide their IP address, allowing them to mask the actual source of attack by impersonating a fake source address of proxy. They connect to proxy servers, which provide resources for them to connect to different networks. Hackers usually use a chain of multiple proxy servers to avoid detection.
Though many tools are available for proxy, the below mentioned are arguably amongst the better ones.
1.HOTSPOT SHIELD:
    Go to your android play store and download Hotspot Shield

Once the tool gets downloaded, start it on your mobile. It should look something like this

Click on connect option and you are good to go.

Snap VPN:
Go to your android play store and download snap VPN. Once the tool gets downloaded, start the app.

It shows the list of countries which provide proxy servers and are available to use without any cost.
Next to it is the signal strength of respective server connection. Click on GO.

Once the connection is established, you are good to go.

ZenMate:
Go to your android play store and search for ZenMate. Click on install

Once the app gets installed, open the app Select any of the enlisted countries and tap on the sheild icon to connect to their server.

Finally, when you get connected, it will look something like this:

Orbot (Tor for Android) :
Orbot is android version of tor and one of most used proxy tool for mobile. Go to your android play store and search for orbot.

Click on install once the tool is installed, open it.

Long press on the onion icon to start

VPN Easy :
Go on your android play store and search for VPN easy. Install the app

When the tool gets installed, open the app Click on the connect button in the middle to start the connection

When you get connected to remote proxy server, it would appear something like this:

Author: Shivam yadav is a hacking enthusiast, a learner and a researcher in this field.
 
