
Live Forensics Case Investigation using Autopsy

First Download autopsy from here and install in your pc. Click ‘Create a New Case’ option.

A new page will open. Enter the details in ‘Case Name’ and ‘Base Directory’ and choose the location to save the report e.g. :cusersrajdesktopauto. Then click on next to proceed to next step. 

Here in next step you have to enter the case number and Examiner details and click on finish to proceed to next step.

A new window will open .It will ask for add data source in Step 1. Select source type to add & browse the file Path and click on NEXT Option to proceed further.

In Step 2.  Configure ingest Modules I have chosen all the modules as I am looking for complete information on evidence device or disk or system  etc. and click next to proceed further.

In Add Data Source just click on finish to generate the report of the device and you can perform complete investigate on the victim device or system or any other disk. It will process the data Source and add it to local database.

After Process completion, it will show Forensic Investigation Report. Now click on Devices Attached option, it will show the list of attached device with system.

Now click on EXIF Metadata (Exchangeable image file format for images, sound used by Digital Camera, Smartphone and scanner). It will show the image files.

Now click on Installed Programs to see the entire installed programs in the system.

Click Operating System Information. It will show the entire operating system list.

Now Select Operating System User Account Option . It will Display  the name of all the user Accounts.

Now click on Recent Documents Option, it will display latest created or opened documents.

Click Web Bookmarks Option to see all the bookmarks by system users in different browsers.

To see web cookies, select web cookies option.

To See Web Downloads, Click on Web Downloads option.

To check internet History, click on Web History Option.

To see the history of internet search, click on Web Search Option.

To see the list of all email ids in the system, click on email address.

Author: Mukul Mohan is a Microsoft Certified System Engineer in Security and Messaging. He is a Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist with high level of expertise in handling server side operations based on windows platform. An experienced IT Technical Trainer with over 20 years’ Experience. You can contact him at mukul@ignitetechnologies.in
