
Database Penetration Testing using Sqlmap (Part 1)

sqlmap is an open source penetration testing tool that automates the process of detecting and exploiting SQL injection flaws and taking over of database servers. It comes with a powerful detection engine, many niche features for the ultimate penetration tester and a broad range of switches lasting from database fingerprinting, over data fetching from the database, to accessing the underlying file system and executing commands on the operating system via out-of-band connections.
Features

These options can be used to enumerate the back-end database management system information, structure and data contained in the tables.

Sometimes you visit such websites that let you to select product item through their picture gallery if you observer its URL you will notice that product item is call through its product-ID numbers.
Let’s take an example
So when attacker visits such kind of website he always checks for SQL vulnerability inside web server for lunching SQL attack.

Let’s check how attacker verifies SQL vulnerability.
Attacker will try to break the query in order to order to get error message, if he successfully received error message then it confirms that web server is SQL injection affected.
 From screenshot you can see we have received error message successfully now we have make SQL attack on web server so that we can fetch database information.

 For database penetration testing we always choose SQLMAP, this tool is very helpful for beginners who are unable to retrieve database information manually or unaware from SQL injection techniques.
Open the terminal in your Kali Linux and type following command which start SQL injection attack on the targeted website.  
 -u:  target URL
–dbs: fetch database name
–batch: This will leave sqlmap to go with default behavior whenever user’s input would be required

Here from given screenshot you can see we have successfully retrieve database name “acuart”

As we know a database is a set of record which consist of multiple table inside it therefore now use another command in order to fetch entire table names from inside the database system.
 -D: DBMS database to enumerate (fetched database name)
–tables: enumerate DBMS database table

As a result given in screenshot we have enumerated entire table name of database system. There are 8 tables inside database “acuart” as following:
T1: artists
T2: carts
T3: categ
T4: featured 
T5: guestbook
T6: pictures
T7: products 
T8: users

Now further we will try to enumerate column name of desired table. Since we know there is a users table inside the database acuart and we want to know the all column names of users table therefore we will generate another command for column captions enumeration.
-T: DBMS table to enumerate (fetched table name)
–columns: enumerate DBMS database columns


Slowly and gradually we have penetrated much details of database but last and most important step is to retrieve information from inside the columns of a table. Hence at last we will generate a command which will dump information of users table.
–dump: dump all information of DBMS database

Here from given screenshot you can see it has dump entire information of table users, mainly users table contains login credential of other users. You can use these credential for login into server on behalf other users.

Last command is the most powerful command in sqlmap which will save your time in database penetration testing; this command will perform all the above functions at once and dump entire database information including table names, column and etc.

This will give you all information at once which contains database name as well as table’s records.
Try it yourself!!!

Author: AArti Singh is a Researcher and Technical Writer at Hacking Articles an Information Security Consultant Social Media Lover and Gadgets. Contact here
