
Step by Step Tutorial of FTK Imager (Beginners Guide )

FTK® Imager is a data preview and imaging tool that lets you quickly assess electronic evidence to determine if further analysis with a forensic tool such as Access Data® Forensic Toolkit® (FTK) is warranted. FTK Imager can also create perfect copies (forensic images) of computer data without making changes to the original evidence. With FTK Imager, you can:
First Download FTK Imager From here and install in your pc.
ADD Evidence Item
Click on Add Evidence Item to add evidence from disk, image file or folder.

Now select the source evidence type as physical drive, logical drive or image file. We have selected image file and click on next.

Select virtual drive image & click on open option.

Select the source path and click on finish.

Now select Evidence Tree and analyze the virtual disk as physical disk.

Similarly to add raw image select again add evidence item and click on image file and click on open option.

Click on finish.

Now raw image will be added as physical drive to analyze.

Mounting an Image as a Local Drive
To mount an image file, click on Image Mounting option.

Select virtual drive image.

Select Mount Type, Drive Letter and Mount Method and click on mount option.

Now it will show the virtual drive.

Now select the image file to mount image to drive.


Capture Memory
Click on button “Capture Memory” how the picture below:

On the next window choice the directory to storage the extracted files, and click on the button “Capture Memory”

Wait for the process finish.

A memory dump file will be created on the source directory.

Create RAW Image
Now open the FTK Imager and Click on Create Disk Image

Now a “Select source” box will open and choose “Physical Drive” click NEXT 

Now choose the drive of the Suspect Evidence you want to make image.

After choosing the Drive Click on finish to Start Creating Image of Suspect Evidence
(Note: choose option “Verify images after they are created”)

Now in Select Image Type Choose “Raw (dd)” and click on NEXT

Now In” Evidence Item Information” Fill the Following attributes, as you can see some random information given can be random as per the Suspects Evidence. Click NEXT

Now choose the location of the image you want to create and Name the Image Filename. And click on FINISH

Now in final Step Click START button to start Creating Image.

Successfully the Suspects Evidence Image Is Created .Now you can audit the Suspects evidence from the image Created from FTK Image.

Author: Mukul Mohan is a Microsoft Certified system engineer in security and messaging .He is a Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist with high level of expertise in handling server side operations based on windows platform. An experienced IT Technical Trainer with over 20 years’ Technical Training experience you can contact him atmukul@ignitetechnologies.in
