
How to perform Forensic Investigation on user Linkedin Account

Linkedin forensic toolkit is a Forensic tool where you can investigate on a desired user LinkedIn account hence you can get all the information such as (Profile, Connections, All Discussions, etc.)
The main advantage is the user wont able knows his account was viewed by the investigator.
 Download LinkedIn forensic toolkit from here and install it in your pc
Now open LinkedIn forensic tool kit and click on “New Case”

Here you must choose the following option as I choose for profile id which I have the URL of the user id which will be easy to find, and proceed to next step.

Here in new case you must enable all option to display all the user information that is in linkedin account from when he or she created the account to today’s date. Now proceed to next step.

Now in new case first you have to choose the location where you want to save the report 
 eg: C:UsersRAJDesktoplinkedin
And the fill the remaining information such as case number, Evidence number,description,note etc.
And also enable the AUTO LOG optio And proceed to next step.

Now in the input field type in the user linkedin account url or simply find it and copy paste it.
 proceed to next step.

Now here it will ask for authentication code, for that click on the OPEN WEB PAGE

 
When you click on the open web page you will be redirected to a web page where you have to give your 
 authentication details (no account details will be disclosed after entering your credentials) and click on allow access.

Now an authentication code will be generated and copy that code and then type or paste the code where authentication code was requested.

Now I have given the authentication code, where it was generated when you give you login with your details 

Now the start the process and let the process finish.

After the process has completed you can see the complete information about the users linkedin account.

Now you can see the information in XML form including all the data, and for other information related to user linkedin account will be saved in file location where you have given as I gave
Eg: C:UsersRAJDesktoplinkedin
 

 
Author: Devjeet Singh is an young Indian Entrepreneur and Cyber Security Researcher. He is acknowledged by Microsoft, Adobe, Nokia, and blackberry.
