
Burpsuite Encoder & Decoder Tutorial

Burpsuite Decoder can be said as a tool which is used for transforming encoded data into its real form, or for transforming raw data into various encoded and hashed forms. This tool is capable of recognizing several encoding formats using defined techniques. Encoding is the process of putting a sequence of character’s (letters, numbers, punctuation, and symbols) into a specialized format which is used for efficient transmission or storage. Decoding is the opposite process of encoding the conversion of an encoded format back into the original format. Encoding and decoding can be used in data communications, networking, and storage.
Today we are discussing about the Decoder Option of ‘Burp Suite’. Burp Suite is a tool which is used for testing Web application security. Its various tools work seamlessly together to support the entire testing process, from initial mapping and analysis of an application’s attack surface, through to finding and exploiting security vulnerabilities. This tool is written in JAVA and is developed by PortSwigger Security.
There are 9 types of decoder format in Burp Suite:
URL Encoder & Decoder
When you will explore decoder option in burp suite you will observe two section left and right. The left section is further divided in two and three section for encode and decode option respectively. The right section contains function tab for encode and decode option. And if you will observe given below image you can notice there is two radio buttons for selecting type of content you want to encode or decode.
Enable the radio button for text option and then we can give any input in the box to be encoded, here we have given Raj chandel as an input as shown in the image. After that click on the Encoded as option and select URL field from given list as shown in the image. We will get the encoded result in URL format in the second box as shown in the image.

 We can directly decode the Encoded URL Text by clicking on the Decoded as option and selecting URL field from given list of options as shown in the image.  This will decode the encoded URL text into plain text in the third box as shown in the image.

Repeat the same and give any input in the first box to be encoded, here we have given Raj chandel as an input as shown in the image. After that click on the Encoded as option and select HTML field as shown in the image. We will get the encoded result in HTML format in the second box as shown in the image.

We can directly decode the Encoded HTML Text by clicking on the Decoded as option and selecting HTML field as shown in the image.  This will decode the encoded HTML text into plain text in the third box as shown in the image.

Repeat the same process and give any input in the first box to be encoded, here we have given Raj chandel as an input as shown in the image. After that click on the Encoded as option and select Base64 field as shown in the image. We will get the encoded result in Base64 format in the second box as shown in the image.

We can directly decode the Encoded Base64 Text by clicking on the Decoded as option and selecting Base64 field as shown in the image.  This will decode the encoded Base64 text into plain text in the third box as shown in the image.

Again repeat the same process and give any input in the first box to be encoded, here we have given Raj chandel as an input as shown in the image. After that click on the Encoded as option and select ASCII Hex field as shown in the image. We will get the encoded result in ASCII Hex format in the second box as shown in the image.

We can directly decode the Encoded ASCII Hex Text by clicking on the Decoded as option and selecting ASCII Hex field as shown in the image.  This will decode the encoded ASCII Hex text into plain text in the third box as shown in the image.

Repeat same as above and give any input in the first box to be encoded, here we have given Raj chandel 123456789 as an input as shown in the image. After that click on the Encoded as option and select Hex option as shown in the image. We will get the encoded result in Hex format in the second box as shown in the image.

We can directly decode the Encoded Hex Text by clicking on the Decoded as option and selecting Hex field as shown in the image.  This will decode the encoded Hex text into plain text in the third box as shown in the image.

Repeat again and give any input in the first box to be encoded, here we have given Raj chandel 123456789 as an input as shown in the image. After that click on the Encoded as option and select Octal field as shown in the image. We will get the encoded result in Octal format in the second box as shown in the image.

We can directly decode the Encoded Octal Text by clicking on the Decoded as option and selecting Octal field as shown in the image.  This will decode the encoded Octal text into plain text in the third box as shown in the image.

Repeat the same and give any input in the first box to be encoded, here we have given Raj chandel 123456789 as an input as shown in the image. After that click on the Encoded as option and select Binary field as shown in the image. We will get the encoded result in Binary format in the second box as shown in the image.

We can directly decode the Encoded Binary Text by clicking on the Decoded as option and selecting Binary field as shown in the image.  This will decode the encoded Binary text into plain text in the third box as shown in the image.

Give any input in the first box to be encoded, here we have given Raj chandel as an input as shown in the image. After that click on the Encoded as option and select Gzip field as shown in the image. We will get the encoded result in Gzip format in the second box as shown in the image.

We can directly decode the Encoded Gzip Text by clicking on the Decoded as option and selecting Gzip field as shown in the image.  This will decode the encoded Gzip text into plain text in the third box as shown in the image.

Author: Ashray Gupta is a Researcher and Technical Writer at Hacking Articles. He is a certified ethical hacker, web penetration tester and a researcher in nanotechnology. Contact Here
