
How to Spider Web Applications using Burpsuite

Hello friends! Today we are doing web penetration testing using burp suite spider which very rapidly crawl entire web application and dump the formation of targeted web site.
Burp Spider is a tool for automatically crawling web applications. While it is generally preferable to map applications manually, you can use Burp Spider to partially automate this process for very large applications, or when you are short of time.
Source: https://portswigger.net/burp/help/spider.html
 Let’s begin!!
First attacker needs to configure browser and burp proxy to work properly, www.tetphp.vulnweb.com will my targetd web site for enumeration.

Form given below screenshot you can see currently there is no targeted website inside site map of burp suite. To add your targeted web site inside it you need to fetch the http request send by browser to web application server, using intercept option of proxy tab.
Click on proxy tab and turn on intercept in order to catch http request.

Here you can observe that I had fetched the http request of www.tetphp.vulnweb.com; now send to spider with help of action tab.

Confirm your action by making click on YES; Burp will alter the existing target scope to include the preferred item, and all sub-items contained by the site map tree.

Now choose spider tab for further step, here you will find two sub categories control tab and option.
Burp Spider – Control Tab
This tab is used to start and stop Burp Spider, monitor its progress, and define the spidering scope.
 Spider Status
Use these settings to monitor and control Burp Spider:
 Spider Scope
This panel lets you define exactly what is in the scope for the Spider to request.
The best way to handle spidering scope is normally using the suite-wide target scope, and by default the Spider will use that scope.
Burp Spider Options
This tab contains options for the basic crawler settings, passive spidering, form submission , application login, the Spider engine, and HTTP request headers .

You can monitor the status of the Spider when running, via the Control tab. Any newly discovered content will be added to the Target site map.
When spidering a selected branch of the site map, Burp will carry out the following actions (depending on your settings):
Hence you can see the targeted website has been added inside the site map as a new scope for web crawling. Choose spider this host option by making right click on selected URL which automatically start web crawling.

When you click on preferred target site map further content which has been discover by spider will get added inside it as shown in given image below.
Form screenshot you can see its dump all items of web site even by throwing request and response of host.

Author: AArti Singh is a Researcher and Technical Writer at Hacking Articles an Information Security Consultant Social Media Lover and Gadgets. Contact here
