
Payload Processing Rule in Burp suite (Part 2)

Hello friends!! Today we are going to discuss “Payload Encoding” option followed by payload processing of Burpsuite which is advance functionality comes under Intruder Tab for making brute force attack.
The processing rule can be used to encode the payload using various schemes such as URL, HTML, Base64, ASCII hex or constructed strings.
Let’s start!!
First, we have intercepted the request of the login page of the router by giving its default IP which is 192.168.1.1, where we have given an invalid username and password. Then click on login, the burp suite will capture the request of the login page in the intercept tab.

Thus the sent request will be captured by burp suite which you can see in the given below image. In the screenshot I had highlight some value in the last line. Here it tells the type of authentication provided by router is basic and if you have read above theory of basic authentication I had described that it is encoded in base 64

Send the captured request to the Intruder by clicking on the Action Tab and follow given below step. Now open the Intruder tab then select Positions tab and you can observe the highlighted password and follow the given below step for selecting payload position.

Now click on payloads option after selecting payload position. Then select the Payload type as Simple list, where we have added a dictionary by clicking on Load button. We can either load the dictionary or we can manually add input strings using the Add button in the payload options as shown in the image.
The base64 encoded value of Authentication is combination of username and password now the scenario is to generate same encoded value of authentication with help of user password dictionary, therefore I have made a dictionary.

Before executing the attack we have added a payload processing rule to the payload type which is Encode and we have selected “Base64 encode” scheme because we know router takes the value in Base64.
Select Start Attack in the Intruder menu as shown in the image.

Sit back and relax because this will start brute force attack and try to match string for user authentication. In screenshot you can the status and length of the highlighted value is different from rest of values. This means we can use this encoded value to bypass the user authentication which occur from request number 10. Now check the username and password of 10th line in dictionary. 
And to confirm the username and password matched, we will give the password in the Router’s Login Page, which will successfully log us into the Router’s Configuration Page. This shows our success in the attack as shown in the image.

This processing rule can be used to decode the payload using various schemes: URL, HTML, Base64 or ASCII hex. As we know decoding is nothing but reversing the encoding. It can be used in an opposite way in which encoding is carried out.
Hash
This processing rule can be used to carry out a hashing operation on the payload. There are 7 types of hashing algorithms are available in this payload processing rule which is as follows:
First, we have intercepted the request of the Redirection Link designed to find redirection vulnerabilities in the LAB created by us and in the hash value of the URL we have given a wrong hash value of HTTP://www.google.com in place of the actual hash value of the HTTP://www.hackingarticles.in in the URL of the redirecting page. We have simply clicked on the Redirection link as shown in the image; the burp suite will capture the request of the redirecting page in the intercept tab.

Send the captured request to the Intruder by clicking on the Action Tab and follow given below step. Now open the Intruder tab then select Positions tab and you can observe the highlighted password and follow the given below step for selecting payload position.

Then select the Payload type as Simple list, where we have added a dictionary by clicking on Load button. We can either load the dictionary or we can manually add input strings using the Add button in the payload options as shown in the image.

Before executing the attack we have added a payload processing rule to the payload type which is Hash and then we have selected MD5 which is a commonly used algorithm for converting URL of the websites into a Hash MD5 value. As you can see the input strings of the dictionary are in a simple text form, but this processing rule converts it into Hash MD5 values which can be seen in result window of the attack.
Select Start Attack in the Intruder menu as shown in the image.

Sit back and relax because now the burp suite will do its work, match the Hash MD5 of the Redirecting Page which will give you the correct MD5 value. The moment it will find the correct value, it will change the value of length as shown in the image.

The Hash MD5 value, we will give the Hash value in the URL of the redirecting page which is HTTP://www.hackingarticles.in, which will successfully redirect us to HTTP://www.hackingarticles.in. This shows our success in the attack as shown in the image.

This processing rule can be used to add raw payload value before or after the current processed value. For example it can come in handy whenever we want to submit the same payload in both raw and hashed form.
First, we have intercepted the request of the login page in the Bwapp LAB, where we have given default username and wrong password. Then click on login , the burp suite will capture the request of the login page in the intercept tab.

Send the captured request to the Intruder by right clicking on the space and selecting Send to Intruder option or simply press ctrl + i. Now open the Intruder tab then select Positions tab and the following will be visible. Choose the Attack type as Sniper. Press on the Clear button as shown in the image. Now we will select the fields where we want to attack which is the password and click on Add button.

Send the captured request to the Intruder by clicking on the Action Tab and follow given below step. Now open the Intruder tab then select Positions tab and you can observe the highlighted password and follow the given below step for selecting payload position.

Before executing the attack we have added a payload processing rule to the payload type which is Add Raw Payload and then we have selected Append Pre-processed Payload. This adds a raw payload value before and after the current processed value. As you can see the input strings of the dictionary as single input string is repeated twice which can be seen in result window of the attack.
Select Start Attack in the Intruder menu as shown in the image.

Sit back and relax because now the burp suite will do its work, match the password which will give you the correct password. The moment it will find the correct value, it will change the value of length as shown in the image.

And to confirm the password matched, we will give the password in the Bwapp LAB login page, which will successfully log us into the Bwapp lab. This shows our success in the attack as shown in the image.

This processing rule can be used to check the current processed value matches a specified regular expression, and if it matches it will skip the payload and will move onto the next one. For example, Suppose we have a parameter value that have a minimum length and want to skip values in the list that are shorter than minimum length defined.
First, we have intercepted the request of the login page in the Bwapp LAB, where we have given default username and wrong password. Then click on login, the burp suite will capture the request of the login page in the intercept tab.

Send the captured request to the Intruder by clicking on the Action Tab and follow given below step. Now open the Intruder tab then select Positions tab and you can observe the highlighted password and follow the given below step for selecting payload position.

Then select the Payload type as Simple list, where we have added a dictionary by clicking on Load button. We can either load the dictionary or we can manually add input strings using the Add button in the payload options as shown in the image.

Before executing the attack we have added a payload processing rule to the payload type which is Skip if Matches Regex where we have given an input of {@} in the match regex field. Here we see that as per this rule if the input given matches with any of the input strings in the dictionary it simply skip that value and move on to next.
Now Select Start Attack in the Intruder menu as shown in the image.

Sit back and relax because now the burp suite will do its work, match the password which will give you the correct password. The moment it will find the correct value, it will change the value of length as shown in the image.

Author: Ashray Gupta is a Researcher and Technical Writer at Hacking Articles. He is a certified ethical hacker, web penetration tester and a researcher in nanotechnology. Contact Here
