
Forensics Investigation of Evidence RAW Image using OS Forensics Tool

OS Forensics allows you to identify suspicious files and activity with hash matching, drive signature comparisons, e-mails, memory and binary data.
It lets you extract forensic evidence from computers quickly with advanced file searching and indexing and enables this data to be managed effectively.
Features
First Download OS Forensic  from here and install in your pc then open OS Forensic and click on create  case  button to  create a new forensic case.

Now enter the details such as Case Name, Investigator Name, Default Drive, and Acquisition Type.
To specify the case folder, click on browse & select the Location where you want to save your Evidence Report.

Now it will show us the registered case in this tool. Now to manage this case, click on Add Device option available in Manage Current Case.

Now select Image File option in Select Device to add option. Now assign the path of the folder where image file exists and also give the Display Name which is compulsory. Click on OK Button.

Now it will show us the details of the Image File.

Now to search the file based on file type click on the option File Name Search .Browse the forensic Image file in Start Folder. Select Preset Popup Menu to specify the type of the file such as images, audio, or video etc. It will show the file list.

Now to get the recent activity which is helpful to see the latest trends and activities of the user, click on    Recent Activity Option and select the Scan Drive option and then click on Scan Option.

To find the Deleted File from User System, Click on Deleted File Search. Select Forensic Image File and click on Search option. It will show all the deleted files in the Forensic Image File. To see the working of other options in this tool wait for the article which is coming soon?

Author: Mukul Mohan is a Microsoft Certified System Engineer in Security and Messaging .He is a Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist with high level of expertise in handling server side operations based on windows platform. An experienced IT Technical Trainer with over 20 years’ Experience. You can contact him at mukul@ignitetechnologies.in
