© 2018 Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. All rights reserved.

Carnegie does not take institutional positions on public policy issues; the views represented herein  
are the authors’ own and do not necessarily reflect the views of Carnegie, its staff, or its trustees.

No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without 
permission in writing from the Carnegie Endowment. Please direct inquiries to:

Carnegie Endowment for International Peace 
Publications Department 
1779 Massachusetts Avenue NW 
Washington, DC 20036 
P: +1 202 483 7600 
F: +1 202 483 1840 
CarnegieEndowment.org

This publication can be downloaded at no cost at CarnegieEndowment.org/pubs.

CONTENTS

ABOUT THE AUTHORS ....................................................................................... v

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS ...................................................................................... vii

TIMELINE ............................................................................................................. ix

SUMMARY ............................................................................................................. 1

INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................................ 5

CHAPTER ONE
IRAN: TARGET AND PERPETRATOR .................................................................................. 9

CHAPTER TWO
IRAN’S CYBER ECOSYSTEM: WHO ARE THE THREAT ACTORS? .................. 17

CHAPTER THREE
IRAN’S EXTERNAL TARGETS ............................................................................ 29

CHAPTER FOUR
IRAN’S INTERNAL TARGETS ............................................................................. 39

CONCLUSIONS AND PRESCRIPTIONS ............................................................ 49

GLOSSARY .......................................................................................................... 57

NOTES ................................................................................................................. 59

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE ............................. 72

iv         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

ABOUT THE AUTHORS

COLLIN ANDERSON is a Washington, DC–based researcher focused on cybersecu-
rity and internet regulation, with an emphasis on countries that restrict the free flow of 
information. Beginning in January 2018, he will be a fellow in the TechCongress Con-
gressional Innovation Fellowship program. Prior to this fellowship, Anderson’s involve-
ments have included working as a researcher at Measurement Lab, producing numer-
ous publications on privacy and security, and advising several organizations focused on 
human rights and Iran. 

KARIM SADJADPOUR is a senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for Interna-
tional Peace, where he focuses on Iran and U.S. foreign policy toward the Middle East. 
He is also an adjunct professor at Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service, 
teaching a class on U.S. foreign policy and the Middle East.

v

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The authors would like to primarily thank Claudio Guarnieri, who was responsible for a 
significant amount of the technical analysis that informs this report. 

Parts of this research were made possible based on the generous access to data provided 
by DomainTools. Similarly, this work was supported by dozens of organizations and 
individuals in the Iranian human rights community who provided cases and context, in-
cluding but not limited to Amir Rashidi, Nariman Gharib, Nima Fatemi, Simin Kargar, 
and Farnoosh Hashemian. 

In addition, Tim Maurer, Michele Dunne, Eli Levite, George Perkovich, Jen Psaki, and 
Mayss al-Alami at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, as well as former 
intern E. Scott Goldstein, provided very helpful feedback on drafts of the report.

Lastly, over the course of this research, we have had the fortune of meeting members of 
the cybersecurity and information technology communities that have acted as advisers 
and provided their expertise. It is immensely gratifying to know that behind the scenes 
of important communications platforms and security companies, there are people who 
hold such concern for the well-being of others in distant countries. These experiences 
have lent reassurance that the internet might continue to provide opportunities to at-risk 
populations against threats to their safety and liberty.

vii

TIMELINE

JANUARY 1992
Iran first connects to the internet.

2000
Internet access becomes increasingly common, with hundreds of thousands of Iranians 
going online on a regular basis.

2001
The Supreme Council of the Cultural Revolution issues rules on internet access, including 
mandatory filtering and surveillance of sites considered politically, culturally, and 
religiously subversive.

FEBRUARY 2002
The hacking forum Ashiyane is created, serving as a catalyst for Iran’s hacking community 
and later implicated in facilitating the Iranian government’s repression of dissidents.

APRIL 2003
Sina Motalebi is arrested, one of the first bloggers in the world arrested for their online 
writings, commencing a crackdown on internet expression.

ix

JUNE 2005
Hardliner Mahmoud Ahmadinejad is elected president of Iran, marking a new era of 
domestic repression and international hostility. 

2007
Iranian threat actors begin to develop tools and conduct campaigns.

JUNE 2009
The contested reelection of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad provokes Iran’s largest popular 
uprising since 1979, known as the Green Movement.

DECEMBER 2009
The Iranian Cyber Army defaces Twitter—taking it offline for several hours—in response 
to the Green Movement.

SEPTEMBER 2011
An Iranian hacker breaches Dutch security firm DigiNotar, allowing the Iranian 
government to spy on Gmail users in Iran. This remains one of the largest security 
breaches in the history of the internet.

APRIL 2012
Iranian oil infrastructure is targeted by sabotage malware agents Flame and Wiper.

JUNE 2012
New York Times reporter David Sanger makes public the details of Operation Olympic 
Games. One of the most sophisticated cyber attacks in history, the operation was begun by 
the United States and Israel in 2007 to covertly sabotage Iran’s nuclear infrastructure. 

JULY 2012
The Madi malware agent, the first Iranian-attributed espionage cyber campaign,  
is disclosed.

AUGUST 2012
Saudi Aramco, the world’s largest oil company, has data destroyed by the malware  
agent Shamoon.

x         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

SEPTEMBER 2012
The first denial-of-service attacks against U.S. banks in what is known as  
Operation Ababil.

JUNE 2013
Pragmatic cleric Hassan Rouhani is elected president of Iran, with the promise of 
improving Iran’s economy by resolving the nuclear standoff.

NOVEMBER 2013
Announcement of nuclear negotiations between the United States, China, Russia, UK, 
France, and Germany and Iran, resulting in an interim agreement.

JULY 2015
The nuclear deal is finalized, known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. 

NOVEMBER 2016–JANUARY 2017
Cyber attacks against Saudi Arabia are renewed in Shamoon 2.

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        xi     

SUMMARY

Incidents involving Iran have been among the most sophisticated, costly, and consequen-
tial attacks in the history of the internet. The four-decade-long U.S.-Iran cold war has 
increasingly moved into cyberspace, and Tehran has been among the leading targets of 
uniquely invasive and destructive cyber operations by the United States and its allies. At 
the same time, Tehran has become increasingly adept at conducting cyber espionage and 
disruptive attacks against opponents at home and abroad, ranging from Iranian civil so-
ciety organizations to governmental and commercial institutions in Israel, Saudi Arabia, 
and the United States.

IRAN’S CYBER THREAT ENVIRONMENT 

•  Offensive cyber operations have become a core tool of Iranian statecraft, providing 
Tehran less risky opportunities to gather information and retaliate against perceived 
enemies at home and abroad. 

• 

Just as Iran uses proxies to project its regional power, Tehran often masks its cyber 
operations using proxies to maintain plausible deniability. Yet there are clear indica-
tions that such operations are conducted by Iranians and frequently can be linked 
to the country’s security apparatus, namely the Ministry of Intelligence and Islamic 
Revolutionary Guard Corps.

1

• 

Iran’s cyber capabilities appear to be indigenously developed, arising from local 
universities and hacking communities. This ecosystem is unique, involving diverse 
state-aligned operators with differing capabilities and affiliations. Over the decade 
that Iranians have been engaged in cyber operations, threat actors seemingly arise 
from nowhere and operate in a dedicated manner until their campaigns dissipate, 
often due to their discovery by researchers.

•  Though Iran is generally perceived as a third-tier cyber power—lacking the capabili-
ties of China, Russia, and the United States—it has effectively exploited the lack of 
preparedness of targets inside and outside Iran. Just as Russia’s compromise of Demo-
cratic Party institutions during the 2016 U.S. presidential election demonstrated that 
information warfare can be conducted through basic tactics, Iran’s simple means have 
exacted sometimes enormous political and financial costs on unsuspecting adversaries.

•  The same Iranian actors responsible for espionage against the private sector also con-
duct surveillance of human rights defenders. These attacks on Iranian civil society of-
ten foreshadow the tactics and tools that will be employed against other targets and 
better describe the risks posed by Iranian cyberwarfare. 

•  Through technical forensics of cyber attacks, researchers documenting these cam-
paigns can provide a unique window into the worldview and capabilities of Iran’s 
security services and how it responds to a rapidly changing technological and geopo-
litical environment.

U.S. RESPONSES GOING FORWARD

•  While Iran does not have a public strategic policy with respect to cyberspace, its his-
tory demonstrates a rationale for when and why it will engage in attacks. Iran uses 
its capabilities in response to domestic and international events. As conflict between 
Tehran and Washington subsided after the 2015 nuclear deal, so too did the cycle of 
disruptive attacks. However, Iran’s decisionmaking process is obscured and its cyber 
capabilities are not controlled by the presidency, as evident in cases of intragovern-
mental hacking.

•  The United States is reliant on an inadequately guarded cyberspace and should 

anticipate that future conflicts, online or offline, could trigger cyber attacks on U.S. 
infrastructure. The first priority should be to extend efforts to protect infrastructure 
and the public, including increased collaboration with regional partners and nongov-
ernmental organizations targeted by Iran.

2         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

•  Narrowly targeted sanctions could be used to deter foreign countries or other actors 

from providing assistance to Iranian offensive cyber operations. Such restrictions should 
still prioritize allowing Iranian society wide access to the internet and information tech-
nologies, to mitigate the regime’s ability to control information and communications. 

•  The United States has pursued a name and shame strategy against Iranian threat ac-
tors, and should continue to do so. The Justice Department has issued indictments 
against Iranians implicated in disruptive campaigns and has successfully obtained the 
extradition from a third country of a hacker involved in the theft of military secrets. 
Because of the small operational footprint of the groups, targeted sanctions or legal 
proceedings are more symbolic than disruptive. These indictments may at least chill 
participation by talented individuals who wish to travel or emigrate.

• 

Iran continues to pursue its interests through cyber operations, engaging in attacks 
against its regional opponents and espionage against other foreign governments. A 
better understanding of the history and strategic rationale of Iran’s cyber activities is 
critical to assessing Washington’s broader cyberwarfare posture against adversaries, 
and prudent U.S. responses to future cyber threats from Iran and elsewhere.

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        3     

INTRODUCTION

Cyberspace has become the newest frontier in the four-decade-long U.S.-Iran cold war. 
Perhaps more than any government in the world, the Islamic Republic of Iran has been 
the target of uniquely destructive cyber attacks by the United States and its allies. At the 
same time, groups associated with Iran’s security forces—namely the Islamic Revolu-
tionary Guard Corps (IRGC) and Ministry of Intelligence—have become increasingly 
adept at conducting their own offensive cyber operations. The targets of such operations 
include Iranian government critics at home and abroad, corporations, and nongovern-
mental organizations, as well as the economic, defense, and diplomatic institutions of 
countries including Germany, Israel, Saudi Arabia, and the United States. 

The Iranian government has provided conflicting public accounts of its offensive cyber 
operations, touting its capabilities while denying responsibility for attacks attributed to 
it. Consistent with its use of proxy groups to assert its regional power, Tehran frequently 
masks its involvement in such operations using cutouts (intermediaries) to avoid attribu-
tion and provide it plausible deniability. Despite these denials, it is clear Iran has invested 
in indigenous cyber capabilities for both defensive and offensive purposes, and is willing 
to use them in the event of conflict.

Tehran’s offensive cyber capabilities are relatively unsophisticated compared to states like 
China, Russia, and the United States. While the Iranian hacking scene emerged in the early 
2000s, there is little evidence of state-aligned cyber activities before 2007. This compara-
tively late start and underinvestment in part accounts for its lower capacity. Yet Moscow’s 
compromise of Democratic Party institutions and political operatives during the 2016 U.S. 

5

election demonstrated that information warfare can be conducted through basic tactics. 
Iran has similarly preyed upon the lack of sophistication or preparedness of vulnerable tar-
gets both inside and outside Iran, including Saudi oil companies, Middle Eastern govern-
ments, and U.S. banks. Though these operations have often caused great financial damage, 
the methods used to destroy data or disrupt access were relatively simple. 

Iran has demonstrated how militarily weaker countries can use offensive cyber operations 
to contend with more advanced adversaries. Tehran’s operations against foreign interests 
have been mostly espionage and sabotage campaigns against soft targets in rival coun-
tries, rather than economic theft. Disruptive and destructive attacks have repeatedly been 
used by Tehran to signal its ability to impose 
retaliatory costs on its adversaries. Overall, 
these disruptive incidents appear to have been 
restrained based on strategic calculations, and 
limited to tit-for-tat exchanges within the 
same domain during times of conflict.

Iran has demonstrated how 
militarily weaker countries  
can use offensive cyber  
operations to contend with  
more advanced adversaries. 

That said, most victims of Iranian cyber 
operations are in Iran or the large Iranian 
diaspora—the so-called internal enemies that 
Tehran’s leadership fears. The early and effec-
tive adoption of the internet and social media by regime opponents and critics has fed 
the perception of Tehran’s hardliners that foreign powers are conspiring to subvert the 
Islamic Republic through new technologies. But the targets of Tehran’s digital surveil-
lance include not only human rights defenders and perceived enemies of the state but 
also apolitical cultural institutions and even Iranian government agencies. Digital espio-
nage and disruptive attacks against government critics have demonstrated to the Iranian 
public that its online activities are not outside the reach of the state.

This report provides a historical analysis of the activities and observed capabilities of 
Iranian threat actors who perform offensive cyber operations, most likely on behalf of 
the Islamic Republic. For purposes of maintaining a consistent terminology, the cyber 
activities covered in this report are framed in terms of “offensive cyber operations,” which 
in the U.S. Department of Defense’s words are actions “intended to project power by 
the application of force in or through cyberspace,”1 or through distinguishing the in-
tended effects (such as disruption, exfiltration, or destruction). This narrows the scope of 
research to intelligence and other offensive actions, rather than the full realm of Iranian 
government attempts to build influence online or control information. 

Hackers working in coordination on cyber operations are described as “threat actors,” 

6         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

although groups can have a single member and their composition can change over time. 
The terms “state-sponsored” or “state-aligned” are used throughout this report to reflect 
the direct relationship between the attackers and the Iranian government that is account-
ed for throughout the operations.2

Forensic artifacts and other records collected from cybersecurity research provide un-
precedented insight into the security and intelligence priorities of the Iranian regime. 
The true intent of an attacker is not always evident in an intrusion. The compromise of a 
system for espionage or reconnaissance can later provide an electronic foothold used for 
sabotage. While Tehran has conducted highly visible attacks against rivals during times 
of conflict, the decade-long history of Iranian cyber operations reveals that the primary 
reason for such campaigns appears to be espionage. 

Iran has been the target of espionage and destructive coercive measures launched by for-
eign states, including not only the United States and Israel but also Canada, France, Rus-
sia, and the UK. These attacks further motivated Tehran to develop indigenous defensive 
and offensive cyber capabilities as well as a credible retaliatory threat. These exchanges are 
directly correlated to Iran’s domestic and geopolitical climate, which has been reflected in 
the reduction of disruptive attacks since the sign-
ing of the 2015 nuclear deal, formally known as the 
Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). 

While Tehran has conducted 
highly visible attacks against 
rivals during times of conflict, 
the decade-long history of 
Iranian cyber operations 
reveals that the primary 
reason for such campaigns 
appears to be espionage. 

The primary source of data used in this report is 
documentation collected from attacks against a 
variety of nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) 
and other targets, both inside Iran and abroad. 
Forensic investigation techniques provide a broader 
perspective on the range of activities of threat actors, 
helping to identify specific participants and their 
potential connections to Iranian governmental enti-
ties. For example, the “sinkholing” of malware—the 
interception of communications through the redirec-
tion of domain names—provides insight into both the perpetrators and the victims of 
such campaigns. In other cases, the lack of professionalism by Iranian groups has led to 
the disclosure of names, aliases, and email addresses of their members in malware code 
and domain registration records.

This first-hand research complements numerous reports—based also on primary source 
material—published by cybersecurity companies on specific Iran-related incidents or 
threat actors. These publications provide alternative insights into Iran’s targeting of other 
sectors outside the authors’ immediate perspective, such as defense companies and gov-

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        7     

ernments. An index of these reports will be made available online.3 Interviews with tar-
gets of Iranian campaigns—including activists and scholars based in Iran and abroad—
help elucidate Tehran’s motivations and place the attacks in a broader context. Interviews 
with cybersecurity professionals similarly provide background on larger industry trends.

The intent of this report is to strengthen policy discussions of Iran’s cyber operations by 
increasing public knowledge about the nature of such activities. Since cybersecurity re-
search is typically limited to disclosures of specific threat actors or incidents, such publi-
cations do not provide insight into larger motivations and observable trends. This report 
differs in that it considers the historical patterns and the broader context of Iranian cyber 
operations, particularly their relationship to changing political conditions. It also em-
phasizes the overlap between Iranian campaigns conducted against foreign government 
institutions and/or corporate entities and those directed against human rights and civil 
society organizations, commonly neglected stakeholders in cybersecurity policy debates.

A better understanding of the history and strategic rationale of Iran’s offensive cyber 
operations must inform U.S. strategy toward Iran and future U.S. responses to Iran’s ac-
tions. This is especially true given the United States is reliant on an inadequately guarded 
cyberspace and should anticipate that future U.S. cyber attacks against Iranian targets 
could trigger retaliatory attacks on U.S. infrastructure. Iran’s recent history suggests such 
an outcome. 

8         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

CHAPTER ONE
IRAN: TARGET AND PERPETRATOR

Since the first publications on Iranian cyber activities in the summer of 2012—disclosing 
a malware agent named Madi—cybersecurity companies and Western government agen-
cies have routinely documented intrusions, disruptions, and other malicious activities 
originating from Iran.4 Yet aside from attacks that sought to subvert foreign infrastruc-
ture, these reports have rarely provided context about Tehran’s offensive cyber operations 
and the motivations for attacks. 

Tehran’s perspective is shaped by the many attacks that have targeted its own infrastruc-
ture. Since Iran’s covert nuclear facilities were exposed by an opposition group in 2002, 
numerous foreign actors have staged intrusion operations that sought to gain access to 
Iran’s nuclear facilities, economic infrastructure, military apparatus, and governmental 
institutions, for both espionage and sabotage.5 

Indeed, the most prominent example of modern cyberwarfare was the sustained cam-
paign of sabotage—unprecedented in its sophistication and preparation—carried out by 
the United States and Israel against Iran’s nuclear facilities. In what was known as Opera-
tion Olympic Games, the malware agent Stuxnet was used to sabotage components of 
the Natanz uranium enrichment facility, resulting in the destruction of over 1,000 cen-
trifuges and setting back Iran’s nuclear progress by more than a year. This marked one of 
the first known uses of offensive cyber operations as a coercive measure between states.6 

While Stuxnet was solely intended to degrade Iran’s nuclear program, other campaigns 
sought to sabotage the country’s financial and oil infrastructure. In May 2012, a consor-

9

tium of researchers disclosed another destructive operation against Iran.7 Malware agents 
known as Wiper and Flame, successors to Stuxnet, had been discovered when Iran’s Min-
istry of Petroleum and the National Iranian Oil Company computers were disabled, their 
hard drives overwritten in a unilateral operation reportedly conducted by Israel.8 

Coercive cyber operations targeting Iran continued following Operation Olympic 
Games. In June 2012, amid stalled nuclear negotiations between Iran and international 
powers, Tehran’s minister of intelligence claimed the country’s nuclear facilities were 
subject to another “massive cyber attack.”9 Later that year, Iran alleged additional disrup-
tive operations targeting its Central Bank, Ministry of Culture, and drilling platforms 
operated by the Iranian Offshore Oil Company.10 

In addition to sabotage, foreign intelligence agencies have continually targeted Iranian 
infrastructure for purposes of espionage, a fact made public to Iran through the intel-
ligence disclosures of Edward Snowden. A former U.S. National Security Agency (NSA) 
worker, Snowden leaked a presentation on a tool known as Boundless Informant show-
ing Iran to be one of the most highly surveilled countries in the world: billions of Iranian 
internet and telephone records have been collected by the intelligence agencies of the 
United States and its partners. In fact, Iran is so frequently surveilled that a Canadian 
espionage operation targeting Iran once stumbled across a French-run intelligence opera-
tion that had compromised the very same network.11 

HOW IRAN EMBRACED CYBER REPRESSION

Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has long believed Washington aspires to 
overthrow the Islamic Republic by instigating mass mobilization along the lines of the 
1989 Velvet Revolution that toppled the Communist regime in Czechoslovakia.12 Fol-
lowing similar logic, Iran’s first cyber operations were motivated by fears that the internet 
facilitated external threats to regime stability. Tehran often labels the online dissent of its 
citizenry as cyberwarfare orchestrated by its enemies, namely the United States, to subvert 
the Islamic Republic. Western government support for unrestricted internet access and 
Persian-language satellite television stations—such as BBC Persian TV—are perceived as 
key elements of this strategy. The advent of social media sites, such as Facebook and Twit-
ter, and messaging apps, such as Telegram, are especially threatening given they challenge 
the Iranian government’s long-standing monopoly over media and communications.

Khamenei’s greatest concerns were realized when the June 2009 contested reelection of 
hardline president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad—amid widespread allegations of fraud—pro-
voked Iran’s largest popular uprisings since the country’s 1979 revolution. It was also a 

10         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

pivotal moment in the Iranian government’s embrace of offensive cyber capabilities, as 
this mass mobilization—known as the Green Movement—became one of the first known 
targets of the regime’s operations. The online contest between the opposition, using the 
internet to coordinate political resistance, and the government, attempting to repress mobi-
lization, set the stage for future conflicts, including those with foreign powers. 

Soon after an estimated 2 million Iranians protested in Tehran on June 15, 2009, sup-
porters of the Green Movement began to battle the government over control of infor-
mation.13 When the authorities expelled foreign media, interfered with mobile phone 
networks, and arrested prominent critics, the internet became a primary channel for 
coordination amid the chaos. In response, the 
U.S. Congress, then U.S. president Barack 
Obama’s administration, and American tech-
nology companies sought to maintain Iranian 
users’ access.14 

An Iranian hacker breached 
the Dutch security company 
DigiNotar to fraudulently issue 
encryption certificates that 
allowed Tehran to spy on all 
domestic Gmail users, one of the 
largest security breaches in the 
history of the internet.

During the Green Movement, pro-regime 
hackers engaged in a multipronged strategy 
of intrusions, disruption of websites, and 
network surveillance. Between December 
2009 and June 2013, a group calling itself the 
Iranian Cyber Army defaced websites associ-
ated with Iran’s political opposition, Israeli 
businesses, independent Persian-language me-
dia, and social media platforms, posting pro-government messages. When human rights 
activists and opposition leaders called for street protests, critical websites were subject to 
a deluge of malicious internet traffic to disrupt access, known as distributed denial-of-
service (DDoS) attacks.15 Government critics were spied on with malware posing as in-
formation on upcoming protest plans and public scandals.16 An Iranian hacker breached 
the Dutch security company DigiNotar to fraudulently issue encryption certificates that 
allowed Tehran to spy on all domestic Gmail users, one of the largest security breaches in 
the history of the internet.17 

Ultimately, the brutality, surveillance, and censorship exercised by the security forces 
debilitated the Green Movement, and by 2011 public protests had subsided. Security 
agencies had adapted to the modern digital environment, with interrogations by the 
IRGC including an intimate review of an arrestee’s personal life based on printed cop-
ies of his or her online communications and social media. An IRGC chief later said that 
suppressing the demonstrations required widespread arrests, massive repression, and cut-
ting off means of mass communication, such as cellphones and the internet.18 The Green 

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        11     

Movement demonstrated to the Islamic Republic that the internet could be used as an 
instrument of mass mobilization and posed an effective challenge to the regime’s long-
held information monopoly.

The tactics, tools, and threat actors that arose during this domestic challenge to regime 
stability would foreshadow the cyber posture of Iran toward a wider set of internal and 
foreign threats. A recurrent theme since the outset of Iran’s cyber operations is that Ira-
nian campaigns do not maintain clear boundaries between operations directed against its 
internal opposition and those directed against foreign adversaries.19 The same infrastruc-
ture and tools used by Iranian threat actors for campaigns against the American defense 
industry are also used to target Persian-language women’s development programs; the 
same malware used in destructive attacks against Saudi government institutions had been 
previously used for surveillance against members of the Green Movement opposition. 

IRAN’S OFFENSIVE CYBER CAPABILITIES

Cyber operations have provided Tehran less risky opportunities to gather information 
and retaliate against perceived enemies at home and abroad. Before information com-
munication technologies were widely available, the Iranian government’s foreign intel-
ligence operations centered chiefly on recruiting agents to spy on and assassinate political 
dissidents or the diplomats of rivals. These operations usually resulted in international 
embarrassment when the attackers were caught and condemnation when they succeeded. 
Compared to clandestine in-country operations, 
offensive cyber capabilities provide stronger de-
niability and have thus far been less likely to lead 
to retaliation upon discovery.

Over the past decade, offensive 
cyber operations have become 
a core tool of Iranian statecraft, 
for the purposes of espionage, 
signaling, and coercion.

Over the past decade, offensive cyber opera-
tions have become a core tool of Iranian state-
craft, for the purposes of espionage, signaling, 
and coercion. Accounts of Iran’s offensive cyber 
operations follow a consistent pattern across 

campaigns and among different threat actors. Operations focus on well-defined sets of 
targets and are less sophisticated than the campaigns of state-sponsored threat actors 
in other countries—to credibly signal threats and create deterrence requires assured 
repeatability, a capability that Tehran generally still lacks. 

Moreover, the level of professionalization, preparation, and investment necessary to 
conduct an operation like Operation Olympic Games remains far outside the capacity of 

12         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

Iranian threat actors. Unlike the cyber operations of the United States and Israel, which 
are conducted by professional intelligence services supported by billion dollar budgets, 
Iran’s offensive and defensive capabilities are disorganized and modestly funded.20 Thus, 
while Iran frequently turns to disruptive attacks to apply pressure, it faces a ceiling of 
capability and opportunity in its ability to threaten opponents. Tehran’s clandestine hu-
man intelligence gathering in foreign countries, particularly outside the Middle East, is 
of similarly low sophistication.

Tehran rarely claims responsibility for offensive cyber operations attributed to it, in-
cluding those espousing support for the Islamic Republic, and has made contradictory 
statements on its cyber posture. Iranian authorities have a history of embellishing the 
country’s military capacity, including for cyber operations. In responding to a series 
of disruptions of its own infrastructure in October 2012, then minister of intelligence 
Heidar Moslehi asserted that “the Islamic Republic is so powerful in the cyber space that 
[even] leaders of the arrogant powers admit and acknowledge our country’s successes.”21 
However, IRGC commander Mohsen Kazemeini also claimed that the IRGC’s cyber-
warfare division was not tasked with conducting offensive operations.22 Official rhetoric 
also appears to conflate the state’s effort to push online propaganda with offensive cyber 
capabilities, leading to claims of tens of thousands of cyber warriors.

Iran has used reports of destructive incidents to portray itself as a victim of foreign ag-
gression, deflect attention away from its own actions, and boast of its ability to neutralize 
potential attacks. When accused by the United States of having conducted a disruptive 
attack against American banks, Iran’s Deputy Foreign Minister Hossein Jaberi Ansar re-
sponded that “the U.S. government, which put millions of innocent people at the risk of 
an environmental disaster through cyber attacks against Iran’s peaceful nuclear facilities, 
is not in a position to level accusations against the citizens of other countries, including 
those of Iran, without substantiated evidence.”23 Iranian officials appealed to internation-
al institutions for relief after the country had been affected by the malware agents Flame 
and Wiper, a move that aligned with its calls for greater United Nations (UN) control 
over the internet.24 

In public statements, Iran has often emphasized its defensive capabilities, announcing in 
2015 that its Cyber Attacks Emergency Center had successfully managed to thwart U.S. 
cyber attacks against the country’s industrial infrastructure.25 Iranian military officials 
regularly announce new defense products developed by domestic contractors, the most 
prominent example being the antivirus software Padvish.26 Despite these claims, Iran has 
shown little success in fostering a mature cybersecurity industry and lags behind both 
developed economies and key regional rivals in terms of investing in defense or formulat-
ing national policies to secure critical infrastructure. 

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        13     

While the Iranian government has committed tens of millions of dollars to cybersecurity 
in recent years, the scale of these investments pales in comparison to the billions spent 
annually by the U.S. government or the hun-
dreds of millions spent individually by American 
banks.27 Were Iran to focus on improving its de-
fensive capabilities, it would still face significant 
constraints related to sanctions, bureaucratic 
inefficiency, and a deficit of specialized expertise. 
Given the sophistication shown by its adversar-
ies, assertions about the quick detection and 
remediation of foreign intrusions into Iranian 
networks should be viewed skeptically, a defen-
sive posture that is unlikely to change. 

Iran is generally perceived 
as a third-tier cyber power, 
lacking an advanced indigenous 
cybersecurity apparatus capable 
of carrying out sophisticated 
operations like China, Israel, 
Russia, and the United States.  

Despite its confident claims, Iran is generally 

perceived as a third-tier cyber power, lacking an advanced indigenous cybersecurity 
apparatus capable of carrying out sophisticated operations like China, Israel, Russia, 
and the United States.28 While technical sophistication does not impede Iranians from 
conducting successful cyber operations, those actions reflect a disorganization and lack of 
professionalism that runs contrary to what would be expected of a state actor and limits 
their capabilities. Tehran’s political and economic isolation has further constrained it 
from acquiring technology and expertise from foreign governments or companies, and 
little evidence exists that would indicate substantial cooperation with other nations in the 
development of its offensive cyber capabilities. 

THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN ESPIONAGE AND SABOTAGE

Media accounts of cyber operations often paint incidents with a broad brush, labeling all 
intrusions as attacks regardless of whether the outcome was destructive.29 Offensive cyber 
operations, however, can be more accurately labeled according to their intent and impact, 
distinguishing espionage and sabotage. Iranian actors have both engaged in intrusions 
to extract information from foreign networks (espionage, information gathering) and 
performed destructive actions to punish or coerce adversaries (sabotage), with a gray area 
in the middle related to signaling and other motivations. Understanding this difference is 
important in assessing Tehran’s strategy and the legality of its operations.

International law differentiates activities that are legal, though not desirable, from those 
that are illegal and could prompt dangerous escalation.30 Just as international law differ-

14         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

entiates traditional espionage from coercion or violence, these same principles also apply 
to cyber espionage. Legal scholars have asserted that “mere intrusion into another State’s 
systems does not violate the non-intervention principle.”31 

Indeed, given the growing number of nations with offensive cyber capabilities, espionage 
and information gathering through cyber operations has increasingly become accepted 
as an international norm.32 While the United States naturally denounces Tehran’s target-
ing of State Department employees, for example, such incidents mirror similar espionage 
operations against Iranian diplomats by U.S. and other Western intelligence agencies.33 

International law experts have provided frameworks for determining what constitutes an 
“armed attack” in cyberspace, based on severity, invasiveness, directness, and other fac-
tors. Such frameworks also reinforce the importance of terminology, differentiating, for 
example, espionage against the Navy Marine Corps Intranet from a destructive incident 
such as Iran’s attack on Saudi Arabia’s and the world’s largest oil company, Saudi Aram-
co.34 Relatedly, scholars have noted that Iran’s use of proxies in offensive cyber operations 
does not absolve the government of legal obligations or repercussions for their outcome, 
based in part on international case law from the 1979 Iranian hostage crisis.35 

Consistent evaluation of the legality of Iranian cyber operations provides clearer public 
benchmarks for assessing when Iran violates internationally respected principles and en-
gages in illegitimate behavior. As Tehran continues to conduct offensive cyber operations, 
it is important for policymakers to assess the intent, scope, and legality of Iran’s actions 
before considering counter responses.

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        15     

CHAPTER TWO
IRAN’S CYBER ECOSYSTEM:  
WHO ARE THE THREAT ACTORS?

The Islamic Republic of Iran is unique in that its most powerful officials—namely Su-
preme Leader Khamenei and the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps—are inaccessible, 
while its most accessible officials—including Foreign Minister Javad Zarif—are far less 
powerful. Iran’s offensive cyber activities are almost exclusively overseen by the IRGC—
likely without the oversight of the country’s publicly “elected” officials—and composed 
of a scattered set of independent contractors who mix security work, criminal fraud, and 
more banal software development. While the relationships between proxies and govern-
ments can range from passive support to complete control, Iran’s indigenous threat actors 
maintain an arm’s-length relationship to the state, with certain operations orchestrated to 
meet the needs of the government.36 

After successfully suppressing the 2009 Green Movement and first detecting the Stuxnet 
attack in 2010, Iranian threat actors conducted sustained campaigns against domestic 
and foreign adversaries. These indigenous operations appear to be performed by small 
groups of individuals that have varying levels of technology experience with no more 
than ten people per team. These campaigns and the resources produced by the groups 
range from rudimentary to relatively professional, but most actors still face a low capac-
ity ceiling.37 

Though U.S. officials and some cybersecurity companies have speculated that Tehran has 
received technical assistance from countries like Russia and North Korea, the level of so-
phistication is commensurate with the established practices of amateur hacking commu-
nities inside Iran.38 While Iranians have demonstrated talents in social engineering and 

17

embedding themselves in compromised networks, this alone is not indicative of external 
training or technological transfers. 

On several occasions, Iranian threat actors have used off-the-shelf or pirated versions of 
professional penetration testing tools to conduct campaigns, but there is little indication 
of Tehran acquiring exploits or malware from foreign governments. Iran has acquired 
hardware for internet surveillance from Chinese telecommunication firms and maintains 
cooperative agreements with Russia on cybersecurity; however, these relationships differ 
from providing Tehran with offensive cyber capabilities.39 No publicly documented or 
privately observed attack has demonstrated the use of tools or resources that are beyond 
the capacity of Iranian threat actors.

In principle, the tools and tactics used in cyber operations are subject to an exposure risk. 
Unlike conventional weapons, malware attacks or other cyber activities lose their effec-
tiveness when discovered and when their functionality and infrastructure is documented. 
Describing a missile does not provide effective countermeasures, but describing malware 
can provide antivirus companies and system administrators the ability to protect systems. 
State-aligned threat actors will likely not employ the most sophisticated tools and strate-
gies available to them unless the target is well protected and worth potentially exposing 
tradecraft to compromise. However, unlike in other countries, there are not observed 
examples from Iranian threat actors of escalation into more sophisticated attacks against 
hardened targets.40 

Iranian threat actors conduct campaigns with established toolkits that sometimes last for 
years and ensnare hundreds of targets. However, the fluid nature and decentralization 
of these groups make them relatively difficult to track. Malware that is publicly attrib-
uted to Tehran is often abandoned immediately on exposure, and identifiable members 
appear to change groups over time. Some groups seem to split up, have members move 
elsewhere, or even collaborate, further blurring lines.41 For example, while an IRGC-
affiliated group labeled Rocket Kitten was the most active operator for a two-year period 
(2014–2016), attracting press attention as Iran’s premiere threat, it has since faded into 
quiescence, eclipsed by the actor Oilrig.42 

Despite their substantial financial impact, Tehran’s disruptive operations against foreign 
targets have been technically simple. The compromise of a small number of IT personnel 
enabled the destruction of data on computers maintained by Saudi Aramco, eventually 
resulting in hundreds of millions of dollars in damage.43 In only a few campaigns have 
Iranian threat actors shown the professionalism and sophistication approaching that 
expected of a nation-state actor; in one such case, the operation could be tied directly to 
the Ministry of Intelligence (Magic Kitten, discussed later).44

18         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

Success can often be attributed to security failures and to poor protection of infrastruc-
ture on the part of the victim, alongside opportunistic targeting and patience by the at-
tacker. The defacement of Voice of America’s websites by the Iranian Cyber Army, one of 
the first disruptive attacks by Iran against the United States, was accomplished through 
social engineering the news agency’s domain name service provider.45 Other basic security 
failures gave Iranians a toehold in the networks of Las Vegas Sands Corp. after its owner, 
Sheldon Adelson, advocated military force against Iran.46 Symantec, an American cyber-
security company, noted that the perpetrators of a recent Saudi-focused campaign had 
invested a “significant amount of preparatory work for the operation,” but the custom 
malware was described by Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky as “generally of low qual-
ity” partially derived from open-source toolkits.47

Similarly, a major attack on the American financial sector—known as Operation 
Ababil—which caused hundreds of millions of dollars in damage, was described as one of 
the largest DDoS attacks known at the time. Yet it took only a few young Iranian com-
puter experts, breaching thousands of websites that were running vulnerable software, to 
pool enough bandwidth to overwhelm the infrastructure of banks and cause unpredicted 
software failures.48 Thus, while Iranian threat actors have limited capacity, through basic 
tradecraft and persistence they can still be effective at espionage and sabotage.

The overall sophistication and dedication observed in such campaigns has not significant-
ly changed in the decade that Iran has engaged in offensive cyber operations—the attacks 
documented against Las Vegas Sands Corp. in 2014 are comparable to those used against 
Saudi Arabia in renewed hostilities over the course of 2016-2017. Indeed, many research 
disclosures cover groups that have been active for several years, using the same malware 
with only incremental changes over the course of time. 

While sophistication alone can be a superficial metric of posed threat, Iranian opera-
tions do not demonstrate the common technical precautions taken by other nation-state 
actors (such as obfuscating malware), and, even with strong social engineering capabili-
ties, attacks are often betrayed by a lack of investment in nontechnical resources (such 
as fluency in English or personal tailoring of messages).49 These resource constraints also 
account for why Iranians are more effective at compromising dissidents—Iranian threat 
actors understand their target’s context and language, as opposed to when they are tasked 
with European languages or other cultures. Iran shows little indication of becoming a 
first-tier cyber power in the foreseeable future unless it begins to further organize its 
operations and invest in professionalism.

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        19     

MAGIC KITTEN 

In January 2015, the German news outlet Der Spiegel released previously un-
published documents on cyber espionage conducted by American intelligence 
agencies.50 One of them revealed an NSA tactic labeled “fourth party collection,” 
which is the practice of breaking into the command and control infrastructure 
of foreign-state-sponsored hackers to look over their shoulders. The presentation 
describes a real-life example of acquiring intelligence and stealing victims from a 
group code-named VOYEUR by the NSA, otherwise known as Magic Kitten. 

Magic Kitten appears to be among the oldest and most elaborate threat actors 
originating in Iran. It is also distinct from other groups because of its apparent 
relationship with the Iranian Ministry of Intelligence rather than the IRGC. 
However, Magic Kitten’s activities mirror those of other groups, with the pri-
mary targets being Iranians inside Iran and Tehran’s regional rivals. The earliest 
observed samples of Magic Kitten’s custom malware agent dates to 2007, well 
before other known malware apparently originated, and the threat actor contin-
ues to be active.

Magic Kitten appears to exercise the most mature tradecraft of Iran-based threat 
actors. It has opportunistically compromised dozens of websites at random 
(including those of an Indian hospital, an Italian architect, and a well-known 
Canadian comedian) to create a relay network to hide its operations. Such atten-
tion to tradecraft appears elsewhere in Magic Kitten’s operations, including in 
the design of malware, which is modular in nature.

Magic Kitten has not been observed using sophisticated exploits and instead ap-
pears to rely on social engineering and other common tactics to deceive users. In 
the case of the journalist Vahid Pour Ostad, the malware was sent by his former 
Ministry of Intelligence interrogator with a threat attached and relied on private 
records that would have been available only to government actors. This coordi-
nation represents both independent confirmation of the NSA’s attribution and 
an extreme example of the strategies employed by Magic Kitten. Other samples 
of the malware agent appear to have been delivered posing as Turkish asylum 
forums for Syrian refugees. 

20         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

The NSA presentation also provides a window on Magic Kitten’s targets up to 
May 2011, portraying an operation focused on North America, Europe, and the 
Middle East. These campaigns continued through the June 2013 presidential 
election of Hassan Rouhani, provoking a blogpost from Google about related 
attacks.51 As the election approached, exposed logs showed the daily capture 
of dozens of accounts connected to Iranian cultural and media figures, gradu-
ate students, and social activists (including individuals that would later join the 
Rouhani administration). Magic Kitten continued to target Iranians after the 
election, attempting to unmask pseudonymous internet users by baiting them 
with content on women’s rights and the security establishment. 

Like other Iranian operations, Magic Kitten maintains a strong secondary inter-
est in conducting espionage against regional targets and international foreign 
policy institutions. CrowdStrike, another American cybersecurity company, 
accounts for part of this focus on “international corporations, mainly in the 
technology sector” and other political targets.52 An NSA slide with a victim map 
portrays a broad-reaching operation targeting nearly every country in the Middle 
East. Sinkhole data collected from expired domains previously used as relays and 
other fallback infrastructure suggest that Magic Kitten, or the malware agent 
used, continues to actively compromise individuals in Germany, Indonesia, Iraq, 
Lebanon, the Netherlands, Palestine, Pakistan, Qatar, Sweden, Switzerland, 
Thailand, and the United Arab Emirates. Notably, compromised individuals in 
Iraq were also typically in Iraqi Kurdistan, mirroring a common pattern with 
other threat actors.

A diagram within the NSA presentation suggests that the malware agent em-
ployed by Magic Kitten was also used at the time by Iran’s Shia Lebanese proxy 
Hezbollah, under independent infrastructure. While Hezbollah has been known 
to maintain its own offensive cyber operations and engage in intelligence sharing 
with Iran, there has been little prior evidence of direct sharing of tools.53 

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        21     

UNDERSTANDING IRANIAN GOVERNMENT  
INVOLVEMENT AND ATTRIBUTION

It is often difficult to determine the origins and perpetrators of Iranian offensive cyber 
operations, as these campaigns may disappear as quickly as they appear. Public expo-
sure often leads them to change tactics and abandon tools, making tracking even more 
difficult. The history of cyber operations targeting Iranians and originating from Iran is 
populated by groups that arise out of nowhere and conduct campaigns for ambiguous 
reasons over a finite time span, then disappear. This unusually frenetic character conspic-
uously differentiates the Iranian hacking ecosys-
tem from that found elsewhere, particularly those 
tied to state actors in advanced countries.

The history of cyber 
operations targeting Iranians 
and originating from Iran is 
populated by groups that arise 
out of nowhere and conduct 
campaigns for ambiguous 
reasons over a finite time span, 
then disappear.

The amateur hackers connected to the Iranian 
defacement community have long been politi-
cally engaged and have often vandalized foreign 
sites for ostensibly nationalistic reasons.54 In one 
of the first international incidents attributed 
to Iran, domestic hacking groups in mid-2008 
exchanged tit-for-tat defacements with competi-
tors in neighboring Arab countries after the of-
ficial sites of Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani were 
vandalized with anti-Shia content by an Emirati 
hacker. Such defacement activities can often evolve into state-affiliated activities: one of 
the participants in the anti-Sunni website-defacement campaign in 2008 was later linked 
to the Iranian Cyber Army. This transition from patriotic hackers to state-aligned threat 
actors, and the ambiguity between civic nationalism and state involvement, mirrors the 
apparent development of cyber communities in China and elsewhere.55

In only two incidents have Iranian government entities taken direct credit for the de-
facement of political opposition sites, both attributed to branches of the Revolutionary 
Guard. The first case was the March 2010 takedown of sites connected to the organiza-
tion Human Rights Activists in Iran, which was alleged to be training cadres to mobilize 
against the regime like the Velvet Revolution. The attack relied on the arrest of a website 
administrator inside the country rather than on complicated tactics. The arrests and 
destruction of data had a lasting impact on the organization by instilling fear in members 
and giving rise to rumors about collaboration with the government. 

The second government-initiated campaign, carried out during a Shia holiday in Decem-
ber 2013, led to the defacement of nine human rights and independent media websites 

22         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

with a Quranic verse in Arabic and Persian. The IRGC’s Public Relations Department 
announced that the operation had been conducted by the Revolutionary Guard’s Ker-
man Branch and claimed that the defaced websites had been established by the country’s 
enemies and supported by internal seditionists.

In most cases, Iran uses cutout or proxy organizations, allowing it to keep some distance 
from the disruptive incidents and propagandistic defacements. These cutouts represent 
themselves as patriotic Iranians or pan-Islamic movements acting independently in 
defense of the supreme leader, national sovereignty, and religious ideals. Conducting 
offensive cyber operations through covert organizations provides Tehran plausible deni-
ability for any attacks, thereby protecting its claim to victimhood while also allowing the 
state to signal its intentions to its opponents. These 
tactics are effective: there is still no definitive public 
agreement on who was behind the Yemen Cyber 
Army’s attacks that led to stolen Saudi Arabian Min-
istry of Foreign Affairs documents being published 
by WikiLeaks, with the consensus split between 
Iran and Russia.56 The cutouts tend to develop their 
own mythology and continue to be treated as active 
threats past their expiration date, bolstering percep-
tions of Iran’s capability. 

Conducting offensive cyber 
operations through covert 
organizations provides 
Tehran plausible deniability 
for any attacks, thereby 
protecting its claim to 
victimhood while also 
allowing the state to signal its 
intentions to its opponents. 

Nevertheless, a comprehensive study of Iran-linked 
cyber operations often reveals Tehran’s hand in 
such proxies. When the U.S. Justice Department 
unsealed its Operation Ababil indictment in March 
2016, it named two Iranian corporate entities that employed at least seven individuals 
who had been contracted by the Iranian government.57 The indictment implicated three 
of the participants as being part of the Sun Army, an Iranian cutout defacement group. 
The Sun Army followed the typical pattern found with the Iranian Cyber Army and 
other state-aligned defacements, arising out of nowhere to perform targeted political acts 
over a short life span. Its first documented defacements, in February 2010, were of sites 
connected to now-detained opposition leader Mehdi Karroubi. The vandalism accused 
him of being a traitor and was timed to blunt planned antigovernment street protests.58

As Iran’s cybersecurity landscape has professionalized, some defacement groups have 
sought to convert their infamy into corporate success. Based on the disclosure of personal 
information about threat actors, there are indications that those engaged in Iranian of-
fensive cyber operations work within corporate entities (such as IT consultancies) or con-
tractors of Iranian security forces.59 For example, aspects of the Madi espionage campaign 

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        23     

implicated the Mortal Kombat Underground Security Team, a small Iranian group that 
has attempted to sell spyware and other hacking tools since at least 2008.60 The frequent 
overlap of legitimate digital commerce sites and servers used for intrusion campaigns 
is demonstrative of these blurred lines—a company might simultaneously provide web 
design services for businesses and hack for the government.61

Iranian threat actors have 
often used pornography as 
bait in their spearphishing 
campaigns and display an 
irreverent sense of humor. 

The transition of amateur hackers into contractors for state security agencies is reflected 
in basic qualities and patterns of life found across most threat actors. There are clear in-
dications that the threat actors documented are solely Iranians operating inside Iran, not 
diaspora Iranians or non-Iranians. At the most basic level, they tend to follow the normal 
patterns of life of office workers, being active during 
the Iranian workweek (Saturday through Wednesday) 
and dormant during Iranian holidays, particularly 
the long holiday of Nowruz, the Persian New Year.

Disclosures of aliases and real names, which may be 
discoverable because of a disregard for operational 
security due to insulation from repercussions or a 
lack of professionalism, help reveal both the lives and 
the motivations of Iranian threat actors. While those 
behind the groups may be nationalists or ideologically aligned with the regime, they do 
not appear to be enrolled members of the military or security apparatus. These individu-
als and groups also differ in social and religious predilections; some participants promote 
the use of narcotics and trade pornography on personal social media, while others are 
devoutly religious and embed Islamic references in malware code. Iranian threat actors 
have often used pornography as bait in their spearphishing campaigns and display an 
irreverent sense of humor. 

CRITERIA FOR INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT  
OF STATE INVOLVEMENT

Campaigns conducted against dissidents and others inside Iran provide the most direct 
evidence of government involvement. Whereas it can be difficult to trace the conse-
quences of foreign espionage, for those on the ground the implications are more direct 
and tangible.62 As a pattern builds between cyber operations and the offline actions of 
security forces, the relationship between both becomes clearer.63 While these cases of col-
laboration are discernible in only a few threat actors, the patterns support a broader nar-
rative around the intrusion ecosystem.64 Indications that Iranians undertaking offensive 
cyber operations are associated with the government include the following:

24         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

•  The campaigns have been conducted based on information that appears to have been 
provided by security agencies. In certain cases, the campaigns have been carried out in 
coordination with government employees and in advance of the arrest of the target. 

•  The targets of such operations align with the sensitivities of the Islamic Republic, 
and certain individuals are targeted repeatedly by multiple threat actors over time.

•  Persistent and costly campaigns have been sustained against thousands of targets 

without an apparent financial motive and without clear indication of the end use of 
the data obtained by intrusion.

In rare cases, potential ties to the government are even disclosed by the participants 
themselves. A malware developer associated with the Rocket Kitten group, Yaser Balaghi, 
was identified by name based on a pseudonym found in the malware’s code. In a résumé 
from 2013, Balaghi listed past information security projects and a history of conducting 
hacking projects under contract to an otherwise unnamed “cyber-organization.”65 Balaghi 
is not alone in listing his hacking activities on his résumé; still other pseudonyms embed-
ded in malware code used against Saudi Arabia and internal dissidents can be associated 
with LinkedIn profiles describing their experience as an “Information Security Research-
er” with a “Secret” group.

To add a complication common in cybersecurity research, it is often difficult to distin-
guish commonplace electronic fraud from politically motivated disruptions and state-
sponsored surveillance efforts, especially where the attacks are not sophisticated. In at 
least one case, Iranians that had staged persistent attempts against U.S. foreign policy 
organizations and two European foreign ministries had also maintained infrastructure 
linked with commercial banking fraud.66 In another example, the same social engineering 
skills used by an individual behind the Iranian Cyber Army defacements also proved suc-
cessful in a career in the commercial theft of domains and PayPal fraud. More recently, 
in an indictment against an Iranian accused of attempting to extort HBO with stolen 
copies of unreleased television episodes in the summer of 2017, the U.S. Department of 
Justice claimed that the same individual had worked on behalf of the Iranian government 
to target military systems and Israeli infrastructure.67

Analyses of Iranian offensive cyber operations often rest on the country’s strict domes-
tic controls as an indication of endorsement—that the government would not allow 
something to happen that it didn’t want to occur. However, Tehran’s controls are not so 
absolute, and many of the operations could occur surreptitiously given their simplicity. 
Cyber activity emanating from Iran could theoretically be conducted without the state’s 
sanction, consent, or even knowledge. Daily, millions of Iranians circumvent censorship 
using antifiltering tools that allow them to bypass network restrictions and encrypt their 

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        25     

communications against surveillance. These tools provide space for Iranians to engage 
in actions against the government without persecution, and similarly can conceal cyber 
activities. Therefore, an Iranian origin does not alone indicate state sponsorship. 

Nor does the financial damage resulting from an operation, the political implications of 
the campaign, or the number of targets necessarily directly correlate with the probability 
of government involvement. The destructive operations conducted against Saudi Aramco 
resulted in millions of dollars in damages, yet the malware was unsophisticated and the 
attack did not require significant resources, putting the incident plausibly within reach 
of a sole individual acting without sponsorship. Such straightforward metrics of harm, 
then, are poorly informative of the degree of governmental involvement in cyber activi-
ties originating from Iran.

GOVERNMENT ENTITIES AND THREAT ACTORS

The coordinated timing of cyber operations with politically motivated arrests are a strong 
indication of the Iranian government’s direct involvement. Since at least July 2014 a 
pattern has emerged: individuals in the custody of the IRGC are forced to provide ac-
cess to their online accounts and devices, which are then immediately used to conduct 
spearphishing attacks associated with known threat actors.

A vivid example of this coordination is the case of Iranian-American Siamak Namazi, a 
forty-six-year-old Dubai-based energy consultant and previously a scholar at the Wood-
row Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington, DC. In October 2015, he 
was arrested by Iranian security forces months after having had his passport confiscated 
while visiting the country. Within hours of his arrest, Namazi’s Google and Facebook 
accounts initiated conversations with his wide array of foreign policy and media contacts. 
The intruder, pretending to be Namazi, sent contacts an article about the recent nuclear 
deal and in poor English solicited edits on the document. This message was accompanied 
by an email directing the target to a fake Google site requiring visitors sign in to their 
account to view the document, a credential theft attempt connected to Rocket Kitten. 
Numerous individuals were compromised in this campaign, including scholars, U.S. 
State Department employees, and one prominent journalist whose Gmail account—
which included communications with former U.S. secretaries of state, CIA directors, and 
other foreign ministers—was overtaken by the Iranian hackers for nearly two days.68 This 
pattern has been repeated in numerous cases involving other Iranians, dual nationals, and 
foreign nationals detained in Iran.

26         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

Cyber operations have also been documented in preparation for arrests.69 A prominent 
example of target selection prior to arrest is the case of Babak Zanjani, an Iranian-Danish 
businessman who had been personally sanctioned by the United States and European 
Union for involvement in Iranian sanctions evasion. After months of claims regarding his 
role in the embezzlement of oil revenue, a process that included a parliamentary investi-
gation, at the end of December 2013 Zanjani was ar-
rested and subsequently charged with “corruption on 
earth.”70 After an opaque judicial process, in March 
2016 he was condemned to death, a sentence the 
Ministry of Justice indicated could be commuted if 
Zanjani cooperated in recovering Iran’s foreign assets. 

A persistent effort targeted Zanjani’s personal accounts 
and business infrastructure in the weeks immediately 
preceding his arrest. Iranian threat actors sought access 
to Zanjani’s iCloud services and successfully compro-
mised employees associated with his holding company, 
the Sorinet Group.71 These activities indicate that in 
advance of the arrest of Zanjani, the group (Flying 
Kitten) had acquired access to the confidential infor-
mation of Sorinet subsidiaries and personnel; however, 
it is not clear whether any material accessed during this time was used in the investigation 
or prosecution of Zanjani. The case of Zanjani reflects a broader trend witnessed with other 
cases; Iranian threat actors frequently pursue online the types of individuals commonly 
persecuted by the Islamic Republic offline. 

This overarching trend 
points to probable 
relationships between 
certain threat actors and 
the intelligence agencies, 
a business relationship 
that has been revealed 
when Iranians have been 
indicted by the United 
States for hacking.

The association between Iranian-origin cyber activities and Iran’s intelligence agencies 
is further supported by the fact that the data acquired during such operations is rarely 
disclosed. The Navy Marine Corps Intranet breach, the Las Vegas Sands Corp. incident, 
and the compromise of State Department employees have all led to the exfiltration of 
substantial amounts of highly sensitive information. There is no indication of ulterior 
motives, such as fraud, extortion, humiliation, or disclosure to the hardline press.72 
The operations required costly infrastructure, including dedicated servers and dozens 
of domain names, in addition to personnel time. The activities must have provided 
some degree of income to their members, with the primary value being espionage. This 
overarching trend points to probable relationships between certain threat actors and the 
intelligence agencies, a business relationship that has been revealed when Iranians have 
been indicted by the United States for hacking.

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        27     

CHAPTER THREE
IRAN’S EXTERNAL TARGETS

Given Iran’s inability to effectively challenge or deter better-prepared opponents, it has 
employed opportunistic destructive attacks to demonstrate its ability to retaliate. Par-
ticularly in the Middle East, Tehran can implicitly threaten cyber operations against the 
poorly defended economic and infrastructure resources of its opponents in the event of 
hostilities. Indeed, the disclosure of targets and victims of Iran’s regional cyber operations 
often include industries that appear to serve no other purpose than creating beachheads 
in rival countries, such as banks and airports. 

The intended effects of disruptive operations can vary, ranging from intimidation to 
destruction for foreign targets, and from embarrassment to existential harm for domestic 
opponents. The targeting or compromise of systems can alone be sufficient to communi-
cate Tehran’s willingness and capability to inflict damage on opponents. This echoes Iran’s 
occasional threat to close the Strait of Hormuz—through which nearly 60 percent of the 
world’s oil supply passes on any given day—during times of crisis. Given the opacity of 
the Iranian government, however, the intended messages and expectations being signaled 
from Tehran can be easily misinterpreted, risking unintended conflict or escalation.

Such destructive attacks are rare, however, compared to Iran’s espionage campaigns 
against foreign governmental and economic institutions. Increasingly these campaigns 
form not only the basis of retaliation during conflict but also an essential crisis response 
mechanism for handling emerging threats. For example, days after a September 2015 
stampede killed over 450 Iranians attending the Hajj pilgrimage, domain names im-
personating the Saudi government and Hajj Ministry were registered by known Iranian 

29

threat actors.73 As relations and communications rapidly deteriorated between the two 
countries, particularly over the fate of a missing diplomat, cyber espionage became an 
information gathering tool for Tehran.

Saudi Arabia aside, Denmark, Germany, Israel, and the United States are among the 
countries that have publicly disclosed espionage attempts by Iranian groups against their 
government, military, or scientific institutions.74 Tehran also targets neighboring coun-
tries throughout the Middle East. Despite the various threat actors that operate on behalf 
of the Iranian government, their behavior patterns—including whom they target—are 
generally consistent over time.

THE UNITED STATES AND EUROPE

In September 2012, a group calling itself the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Cyber Fighters an-
nounced it had begun a campaign of DDoS attacks against the U.S. financial sector. Pri-
or to the campaign, the culprits had exploited vulnerabilities in the software of thousands 
of websites in order to create an attack platform un-
der their control. With this army of servers located 
within well-connected hosting companies, the at-
tackers could deluge their targets with high volumes 
of malicious traffic. In the first phases of Operation 
Ababil, the group targeted the U.S. banking infra-
structure. Unprepared for such a volume of traffic 
(the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation stated the 
highest rate observed approached 140 gigabits per 
second, three times the capacity of the banks at the 
time), the victims’ databases and systems crashed 
from the dramatic increase in requests. 

An NSA briefing document 
also made clear the 
motivation for Operation 
Ababil: “[Signals intelligence] 
indicates that these attacks 
are in retaliation to Western 
activities against Iran’s 
nuclear sector and that 
senior officials in the Iranian 
government are aware of 
these attacks.” 

Subsequent phases of the campaign were less ef-
fective as the financial sector steadily improved its 
defenses. By the fourth attempted attack, in July 
2013, little visible impact resulted. Still, by the 
FBI’s account, Operation Ababil locked hundreds 

of thousands of banking customers out of accounts for long periods of time and resulted 
in tens of millions of dollars in costs to remediate. An NSA briefing document also made 
clear the motivation for Operation Ababil: “[Signals intelligence] indicates that these 
attacks are in retaliation to Western activities against Iran’s nuclear sector and that senior 
officials in the Iranian government are aware of these attacks.”75

30         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

Operation Ababil remains the most destructive Iranian attack on the United States. 
While the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) alleged that Tehran had elec-
tronically surveilled and tampered with the devices of visiting nuclear inspectors in 2011, 
little had been known about Iranian cyber espionage prior to 2012.76 That summer pro-
vided the first public indication that Iranian threat actors had staged campaigns to spy 
on rivals.77 The Madi malware campaign was reported to have compromised up to 800 
victims over the course of a year. The countries and 
entities targeted were a harbinger of future Iranian 
cyber operations, including oil companies, U.S. 
think tanks, government agencies, engineering firms, 
financial institutions, and academia. 

Several Western countries have provided evidence of 
Iranian cyber operations in indictments and security 
reports. In addition to Operation Ababil, Iranians 
were alleged to have gained access to the unclassified 
Navy Marine Corps Intranet, a system used to store 
unclassified information and communications, for several months starting in August 
2013.78 In the 2016 edition of an annual Ministry of Interior security assessment, the 
German government cited Iran as a new source of cyber espionage against the country, 
a disclosure that aligned with reports that the Bundestag had been affected by a malware 
operation that targeted visitors of the Israeli newspaper Jerusalem Post.79 

Iranians attempted to 
compromise the personal 
email accounts of members of 
the American team during the 
nuclear negotiations.

Overall, however, cases of successful Iranian intrusions into American and European 
governmental infrastructure are rare, particularly highly secured, classified networks. 
Government agencies are typically hardened beyond the capability of Iranian threat ac-
tors to penetrate them. Consequently, Iranians have sought softer U.S. targets, launching 
spearphishing attempts on the personal email and social media accounts of U.S. govern-
ment employees. While personal accounts are less likely to contain classified government 
information, they are also less likely to be properly secured, and often contain useful 
information such as private material and traces of professional communications.

For example, Iranians attempted to compromise the personal email accounts of mem-
bers of the American team during the nuclear negotiations.80 Similarly, after the 2016 
U.S. presidential election, Iranian threat actors focused on former Obama staff, Re-
publican members of Congress, supporters of Donald Trump’s campaign, conservative 
media organizations, and nominees for political appointments in an apparent attempt 
to acquire intelligence on the new administration.81 More recently these spearphishing 
campaigns have targeted critics of Iran in the U.S. Congress while new sanctions have 
been under consideration.

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        31     

Tehran tends to target the foreign government personnel and agencies that focus on Iran, 
namely those in the United States or Europe who work on Iran policy or within Persian-
language media, including Voice of America television and Radio Farda. Iranian threat 
actors have used the compromised accounts of prominent Iranian-Americans, interna-
tional businessmen, and other dual nationals arrested by the IRGC to impersonate them 
and target the private email accounts of U.S. State Department personnel connected to 
Iran policy. 

In contrast to the release of private emails by WikiLeaks during the 2016 U.S. elec-
tion, which leveraged stolen emails for information warfare, Tehran’s compromise of 
State Department employees’ emails did not lead to visible sabotage or the disclosure of 
embarrassing material. While there have been dozens of attempts to target a wide array of 
American politicians and government employees, these intrusions were mostly opportu-
nistic attempts that did not appear to escalate into more sophisticated operations.

Following the 2015 nuclear agreement, the incidence of covert action and retaliatory at-
tacks between Washington and Tehran decreased. Reports of disruptive cyber operations 
against U.S. and Iranian infrastructure diminished, as Tehran focused more on domestic 
political opponents and regional adversaries, such as Israel and Saudi Arabia. Just as Op-
eration Olympic Games provided Washington the ability to coerce Iran without direct 
military intervention, Tehran now engages in offensive cyber operations to project its 
regional power.

SAUDI ARABIA

No other country appears to have been the subject of as many offensive cyber opera-
tions from Iranian state-sponsored threat actors as Saudi Arabia. The two countries are 
ethnic (Arab vs. Persian), sectarian (Sunni vs. Shia), and above all geopolitical rivals, 
on opposing ends of bloody proxy wars in Iraq, Syria, and Yemen and fierce politi-
cal battles in Bahrain and Lebanon. Relations between 
Tehran and Riyadh have often been tense since the 1979 
Islamic Revolution, and formal diplomatic ties have been 
suspended intermittently due to political disputes. Most 
recently, in January 2016, Saudi Arabia closed its Tehran 
embassy after it was ransacked by an Iranian-government-
sanctioned mob. 

Saudi political and 
economic institutions 
have been compromised 
by Tehran for purposes 
of both espionage  
and disruption. 

Since the start of Iran’s cyber operations, Saudi political and 
economic institutions have been compromised by Tehran 

32         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

for purposes of both espionage and disruption. In various reports on Iranian malware 
and credential theft campaigns—attempts to acquire passwords or account recovery 
information—Saudi Arabia has been one of the most common sources of victims and 
targets. This pattern reflects the two countries’ profound geopolitical and ideological dis-
putes (intent), and Saudi Arabia’s continued vulnerabilities in cyberspace (opportunity). 

Iran’s August 15, 2012, attack on Saudi Aramco during the Muslim Eid holiday (and a 
similar attack against Qatar’s RasGas Company two weeks later) is a prime example of 
how Iran uses offensive cyber operations to retaliate against foreign adversaries. As covert 
actions by foreign actors targeted Iran’s nuclear and oil 
infrastructure, previously unknown groups began stag-
ing disruptive attacks against economic infrastructure in 
Saudi Arabia and the United States, portraying them-
selves as independent hacktivists motivated by national-
ism and Islamic values. 

Shamoon’s message 
appeared clear: Iran 
may not always be able 
to defend itself against 
more advanced cyber 
capabilities, but it can 
impose substantial 
retaliatory costs against 
U.S. allies.

To avoid attribution, retaliatory acts were conducted 
using cutouts that provided them plausible deniability. 
In the Shamoon attack, known by the name given to the 
malware, tens of thousands of Saudi Aramco computers 
were compromised, causing tens to hundreds of mil-
lions of dollars in damage. One group, self-identified as 
the Cutting Sword of Justice, claimed responsibility for 
the attack, which overwrote the hard drives of Aramco 
computers with the image of a burning American flag, causing embarrassment to the 
company. Unlike the cyber operations conducted against Iran by foreign entities, the 
retaliatory attacks carried out by Tehran sought maximum visibility.

Initial analysis of the incident found that Shamoon was likely inspired by the Wiper mal-
ware that had targeted Iran in April 2012, given both destroyed stored data as a method of 
sabotage. Tehran was potentially motivated by retaliation for cyber operations against its 
oil production infrastructure. Shamoon’s message appeared clear: Iran may not always be 
able to defend itself against more advanced cyber capabilities, but it can impose substantial 
retaliatory costs against U.S. allies.

The tit-for-tat cycle of covert destructive attacks and symbolic retaliation seen with 
Shamoon and Ababil reflects Iranian security tactics witnessed in offline hostilities. 
Between 2010 and 2012, for example, several Iranian nuclear scientists were assassinated 
under mysterious circumstances, allegedly by the United States or Israel.82 In apparent 
retaliation, Tehran attempted, unsuccessfully, to assassinate Israeli officials in unexpected 
places like Georgia, India, and Thailand. This cycle, a recurrent theme in Iran’s covert 

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        33     

actions, showed Tehran’s ability to learn from attacks and retaliate in a similar fashion, 
providing a potential framework for understanding its signaling and motivations in con-
ducting disruptive cyber operations.83 

Compared to Iran’s other adversaries (namely the United States and Israel), Saudi govern-
mental and economic institutions have yet to sufficiently implement systems and protocols 
to increase national cybersecurity. Iranian actors have targeted a broad range of economic, 
military, and political institutions in Saudi Arabia—including Saudi Aramco and its foreign 
partners, the King Faisal Foundation, the Ministries of Commerce and Foreign Affairs, 
the Saudi Stock Exchange, and even Saudi Arabian human rights advocates. Researchers 
have documented multiple cases in which Saudi companies and organizations were com-
promised, in one event leading to the exfiltration of vast sums of archival proprietary data 
spanning multiple years from one industrial development corporation.84 

Weak Saudi cyber defenses have not only made the country vulnerable to Iranian coer-
cion but also made Riyadh a soft target for Tehran’s retaliation against destructive cyber 
operations performed by third countries. If Iran cannot cause significant damage to 
the United States during times of conflict, then damaging the economic institutions of 
American allies will suffice. 

The campaign of coercive pressure continues as well: the Saudi Ministry of Defense and 
other networks sustained DDoS attacks at the same time as the attack on the embassy.85 
When the Shamoon malware agent used in the Aramco incident reappeared in an 
updated form (labeled as Shamoon 2 by researchers) from November 2016 to January 
2017, it destroyed databases and files belonging to both the government and private 
sector, including the General Authority of Civil Aviation, the Ministry of Labor, the 
Saudi Central Bank, and natural resource extraction companies.86 Shamoon 2 contained 
references to Yemen and overwrote the victims’ hard drives with an image of the drowned 
Syrian refugee child Alan Kurdi, once again signaling the attacks were retaliation for 
Saudi policies in Syria and Yemen.87 

ISRAEL

One of the consistent pillars in Iran’s foreign policy has been opposition to Israel’s 
existence and support for anti-Israeli militant groups, such as Hezbollah, Hamas, and 
Palestinian Islamic Jihad. Despite this, however, Tehran has been far less successful in 
cyber operations targeting Israeli institutions for disruption and espionage. The docu-
ments used as bait in the Madi operation were commonly written in Hebrew or refer-
enced Israeli security policies, and researchers have documented fifty-four compromised 
entities in Israel during that campaign.88 During the conflict between Israel and Gaza 

34         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

in the summer of 2014, known as Operation Protective Edge, authorities claimed that 
the Israel Defense Forces’ infrastructure was targeted by DDoS attacks launched by a 
wide range of belligerents, including Tehran.89 These DDoS attacks would align with the 
known capabilities of Iranian threat actors, including the tactics used against the United 
States and dissidents. 

Despite a history of DDoS attacks and defacements of Israeli websites, Tehran’s ability 
to inflict major costs on Israel through cyber operations has thus far been limited and 
perhaps diminishing.90 Given the sophistication of Israel’s cyber defense, Tehran has been 
forced to focus mainly on soft targets, for narrow espionage opportunities and the poten-
tial disruption of civilian resources in the event of conflict. 

Iranian targeting of Israelis, like U.S. nationals, emphasizes individuals focused on Iran 
and regional policies. Tehran has engaged in spearphishing attempts against academic 
institutions, national security officials, diplomats, members of the Knesset, and Israeli 
aerospace companies. Similarly, Iranian actors have commonly created malicious do-
mains that have emulated those owned by the American Israel Public Affairs Committee 
(AIPAC) and have targeted employees of both liberal and conservative Jewish organiza-
tions in the United States and elsewhere. 

While Iran has had some success in compromising smaller civilian institutions, it has not 
visibly attempted to use these breaches coercively. The lack of immediate weaponization 
of breaches is demonstrative of how strategic calculations shape outcomes. The destruc-
tion of banking information or medical data over nonexistential challenges to the Islamic 
Republic is perhaps not worth inviting retaliation from Israel (a threat that Saudi Arabia 
lacks). Tehran’s desire for signaling a credible retaliatory threat against Israel through of-
fensive cyber operations may also be sufficiently served by the mere compromise of such 
institutions. Cyber capabilities have certainly not altered the power dynamics between 
Iran and Israel, and the difference in technical capacities likely shapes Iran’s posture 
toward its adversary. 

REGIONAL ALLIES AND ADVERSARIES

While Tehran’s disruptive cyber operations in the region have primarily targeted Saudi 
Arabia, multiple Iranian threat actors have been observed targeting nearly every Middle 
Eastern, North African, and bordering country. For example, Magic Kitten successfully 
compromised victims across the Middle East and South Asia.91 This pattern has been 
repeated during Madi and subsequent operations up to the present.

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        35     

Cyber espionage has provided Tehran further insights about its often politically unstable 
neighbors. Iranian threat actors have shown a recurrent interest in the infrastructure 
of neighboring countries, including Afghanistan’s National Radio, Ministry of Educa-
tion, and government network.92 Other indicators also suggest an interest in Pakistan’s 
and Afghanistan’s security and defense organizations.93 Fictitious social media profiles 
and spearphishing campaigns have commonly targeted Iraqis, notably engineers within 
telecommunications networks and political elites. Iranian groups have also maintained an 
extremely active interest in the political institutions of Iraqi Kurdistan.94 

In addition, multiple Iranian threat actors have engaged in spearphishing attempts 
against dozens of individuals affiliated with human rights organizations, political move-
ments, and independent media outlets in Yemen, where Tehran is engaged in a proxy war 
with Saudi Arabia.95 The Israeli cybersecurity company ClearSky found that 11 percent 
of the targets of one Iranian credential theft campaign (Rocket Kitten) in 2015 were 
connected to Yemen. These operations specifically support Iran’s position in the Yemeni 
conflict, with recent attempts targeting prominent critics of the Houthis, the Shia Mus-
lim group that Iran has been supporting in the country’s civil war. 

Iranian actors have also reportedly targeted Syrian opponents of President Bashar al-
Assad’s regime in limited cases, including exiled Syrian dissidents.96 There has been spec-
ulation that Iran has also supported the offensive cyber 
operations of its traditional allies Syria and Hezbollah, 
notably after Syrian dissidents became the target of 
sustained malware campaigns starting in 2012. Yet 
there is only limited evidence of technical cooperation, 
and little reason why either would be dependent on 
Iran for capabilities. 

While there are credible 
indications that Tehran has 
provided Syria traditional 
electronic warfare equipment, 
the Assad regime apparently 
didn’t require extensive help 
with developing offensive 
cyber capabilities. 

While there are credible indications that Tehran has 
provided Syria traditional electronic warfare equipment, 
the Assad regime apparently didn’t require extensive 
help with developing offensive cyber capabilities. An 
indigenous ecosystem of hackers organized by Assad’s 
relatives has proven effective at targeting the regime’s 

opponents from early into the civil war. Small groups of hackers in Syria have typically used 
spyware that is popular among Arab hacking communities against opponents of Assad. 
Conversely, while little is known about Hezbollah’s offensive cyber capabilities, in one 2015 
report that described their malware and operations, the Lebanese group had seemingly 
outpaced its Iranian patron.97 

36         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

The lack of external evidence of cooperation does not preclude other coordinated efforts 
or intelligence sharing, but basic cyber operations are easier than electronic warfare—such 
as signal jamming, radar collection, and signal location—or other military domains that 
require a defense industrial base.98 None of the known capabilities or incidents involved 
specialized knowledge that required external support, and all have independent profiles on 
how their operations are conducted. Iranians have not used the same commodity spyware 
as Syrian groups, suggesting that pro-Assad groups owe more to local hacking scenes than 
other states. Moreover, Iran’s lack of cooperation with allies or friendly foreign powers may 
reflect other factors influencing decisions to share resources. Allies still spy on allies: Iran 
could also want to withhold its toolkit to provide some oversight in contentious situations, 
such as monitoring the stability and loyalty of the Assad regime.

COMMERCIAL TARGETS 

Unlike China, Iran has limited use for commercial espionage given its lack of an indus-
trial production sector that could utilize stolen intellectual property. Iran’s industrial 
espionage activities serve to boost its commodities industries and military technological 
prowess rather than its domestic manufacturing sector. Nor has Iran attempted to offset 
the impact of economic sanctions through large-scale financial crime, as North Korea ap-
pears to do.99 Based on public reports and directly observed campaigns, the commercial 
entities targeted by Iranian threat actors typically fall into four categories:

•  Aerospace and civil aviation

•  Defense industrial base and security sector

•  Natural resources and extractive industries 

•  Telecommunications firms

Evidence of Iran’s interest in the theft of defense secrets comes from several cybersecurity 
reports, observed incidents, and U.S. indictments. Nima Golestaneh, an Iranian national 
extradited to the United States from Turkey, pleaded guilty to supporting the October 
2012 hack of Vermont-based defense company Arrow Tech Associates in an operation to 
acquire copies of their weapon system simulations to sell the software to Iranian govern-
ment and military entities.100 This would prove to be a harbinger of later efforts. 

In early 2014, in parallel to targeting Iranian women’s development programs and others, 
one threat actor (Flying Kitten) impersonated a website for an aerospace systems con-
ference to spread malware to defense contractors, a tactic still used against the industry 

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        37     

today. Another Iranian threat actor over the course of 2015 to 2016 repeatedly created 
phony corporate websites for Oshkosh Corporation, an American defense company, to 
capture credentials from its private internal business network, and continued to target 
aviation companies, including jet engine manufacturers and satellite companies. Reports 
of attempts of military espionage by Iranian threat actors are extremely common and 
include a broad set of industries, most notably aerospace technologies.

Yet these operations appear to have had limited success. Given their involvement in the 
defense industry, coupled with related concerns about Chinese industrial espionage, 
companies like Oshkosh prioritized information security in ways that NGOs have not. 
Consequently, while there is indication that employees are commonly targeted, even 
compromised, reports of the theft of highly sensitive defense secrets by Iran are rare. 

The targeting of defense companies is also motivated by regional politics rather than 
solely theft of military technologies. Several defense industry companies targeted by Ira-
nian threat actors, including Oshkosh Corporation, are substantially involved in provid-
ing security and military assistance to Saudi Arabia and other Gulf states. Many of the 
American companies—including Oshkosh Corporation—that were designated by the 
Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs in March 2017 under retaliatory human rights sanc-
tions for their involvement with the Israeli military have also been targeted by Iranian 
cyber operations.101 

As in other areas, it is difficult to derive intent purely from who was targeted or im-
personated. In certain cases, it appears Iranian threat actors have compromised Middle 
East–based information technology consultants in pursuit of the governments or busi-
nesses who are their clients. These operations often target company employees based in 
the Middle East, potentially to acquire information on the military capabilities of rivals 
or access to other targets (such as supply-chain attacks). One more recent campaign 
masquerading as Boeing and Northrop Grumman appeared focused on Saudi Arabia’s 
military and commercial aviation sectors.102

Similarly, Iran’s targeting of telecommunications firms, banks, and civil aviation compa-
nies could provide them a foothold in critical infrastructure, one that could potentially 
cause substantial economic harm and even endanger lives. Thus far, however, Tehran ap-
pears to have used such targeting for reconnaissance purposes, mirroring other countries’ 
cyber activities.103 However, there are legitimate reasons to be concerned that Tehran’s 
intention in targeting critical infrastructure is to hold social and economic assets in ad-
versarial countries at risk in the event it needs to escalate or retaliate during conflict. 

38         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

CHAPTER FOUR
IRAN’S INTERNAL TARGETS

The history of Iranian offensive cyber operations has demonstrated that the same threat 
actors responsible for espionage against the private sector engage in surveillance of hu-
man rights defenders, and with considerably more success, given the latter’s resource 
constraints. Through the lens of such attacks, the relationship between Iran-originated 
cyber activities and the government as well as the motivations for such operations are 
made clearer. These communities foreshadow the tactics and tools that will be employed 
against other targets, and increased information will enable more effective education and 
mitigation strategies.

While the internet has afforded Tehran’s security agencies new possibilities for surveilling 
and intercepting the communications of its citizens, concurrent information technolo-
gies also limit the reach of the state. Iran was one of the first countries in the Middle East 
to connect to the internet, and as a result over half of the population was frequently us-
ing the internet as of March 2017.104 Iranian internet users have been quick to embrace 
social media and chat applications in large numbers as forums where there are more 
social freedoms. 

As Iranian citizens have moved their communications to internet platforms hosted out-
side Iran and protected their communications from eavesdropping by using encryption, 
they have also evaded the more traditional means by which Iranian law enforcement and 
intelligence agencies perform surveillance.105 Whereas local hosting providers and social 
media could be compelled to remove content and disclose account ownership informa-
tion, platforms hosted outside Iran are beyond the direct reach of the state. 

39

The Iranian government has sought to compel foreign firms to comply with requests for 
user data, without great success.106 Domestic alternatives to foreign services, supported 
by the state under its national internet plan, have failed to attract significant adoption 
(Iranian officials themselves tend to use communication tools and social media applica-
tions developed in the United States).107 Moreover, millions in the Iranian diaspora—
many of whom left Iran because of state repression—live in countries with no security 
cooperation agreement with Tehran and are less inclined to communicate over insecure 
Iranian platforms. As a result, in contrast to the first two decades after the revolution, 
Iranians’ communications and personal activities are increasingly out of the state’s reach. 
This dynamic has fundamentally altered the nature of state controls. 

The Iranian government has struggled to respond to the challenges posed by the internet 
to the state’s information and communication monopoly. Among their first responses 
was mandatory content filtering, which entailed blocking access to any sites considered 
pornographic, antireligious, or politically subversive. With the increased availability of 
circumvention tools, however, filtering became less effective. Subsequently, basic offen-
sive cyber operations, such as disrupting adversarial sites during the Green Movement, 
gave the regime the ability to reassert some control over information flows and project 
the illusion of the Islamic Republic’s dominance over the internet. 

Iranian cyber operations are highly adaptable as the online platforms and tools used by 
the public change. For example, after Iranians shifted to Telegram because of its unfil-
tered public chat feature and security claims, so too did the attention of Iranian threat 
actors. Alongside credential theft operations targeting Telegram users, one threat actor 
appears to have gone as far as mapping all the Telegram accounts connected with Iranian 
telephone numbers. This information-gathering operation had deeper ties to efforts to 
target the chat application’s users and aligned with recurrent arrests of administrators 
from critical Telegram groups. This learning process is repeated elsewhere, including for 
mobile phones and Macintosh computers.108 

Across discrete sets of threat actors and different periods of time, state-aligned offen-
sive cyber operations routinely focus on similar classes of targets, primarily:

1.  Government officials

2.  Reformist politicians 

3.  Media professionals 

4.  Religious minorities

5.  Cultural figures

6.  Opposition groups, terrorist organizations, and ethnic separatist movements

40         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS

Numerous Iranian threat actors have sought to compromise members of Hassan Rou-
hani’s government, the administration of former president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, and 
the state’s bureaucratic institutions. The operations target not only government officials 
but also their relatives, including a sustained campaign directed against Rouhani’s imme-
diate and extended family (particularly his brother and adviser, Hossein Fereydoun).109 
Magic Kitten, the earliest known threat actor, from the outset engaged in intrusions of 
the Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting state television network and the Center for 
Strategic Research, the think tank research arm within the Iranian government’s Expedi-
ency Council that was headed by Rouhani at the time. 

Campaigns targeting the Iranian government are ongoing. The targeting of members of 
government—individuals that have already been vetted by the regime—reflects the im-
portance of cyber surveillance as a tool of the hardline security establishment to monitor 
potential rivals for power and accrue sensitive information about people’s lives that could 
potentially be used for blackmail or humiliation. 

The Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs provides the most prominent and visible example 
of intergovernmental spying. Iranian diplomats have been frequent targets of spearphish-
ing attempts conducted by IRGC-affiliated threat actors since the beginning of the 
Rouhani administration. These activities align with accusations in the hardline press that 
the nuclear deal betrayed Iranian interests.110 The hacking attempts also mirror a history 
of arrests and pressure brought to bear on members of the diplomatic service accused of 
spying, including the August 2016 detention of Abdolrasoul Dorri-Esfahani, who served 
on Iran’s nuclear negotiating team for the JCPOA.111 Whereas diplomacy requires inter-
acting with officials from foreign governments and external experts, these contacts can 
quickly be portrayed as engaging in espionage for foreign powers.

While Foreign Minister Javad Zarif and other figures have been the targets of social 
media defacements and threats, the campaigns conducted by the indigenous threat actors 
outlined in this report differ in their intent from simple hacktivism or vandalism. The 
objective is the collection of personal information from private accounts on interna-
tional platforms and the monitoring of intimate political and professional networks of 
government officials.112 These tactics include the typical credential theft attempts against 
personal email accounts seen elsewhere; however, special effort has been made to com-
promise government officials and their family members through elaborate deception 
and by using privileged resources.113 Once compromised, those accounts have been then 
turned on their diplomatic contacts and peers. Zarif, and other senior diplomats, have 
been repeatedly impersonated and targeted by different IRGC-affiliated threat actors, as 
early as 2013 and as recently as February 2017.114 

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        41     

The diplomatic core is not the only target of intragovernmental spying: several cabinet 
officials of the Rouhani administration have had their personal email accounts targeted 
and compromised.115 The cyber operations conducted by Iranian threat actors have 
extended beyond immediate members of government to target members of the Shia 
religious establishment, which undergirds the state’s ideology and political affairs. Cam-
paigns have compromised multiple individuals located in Qom, the center of Iranian 
religious matters, including hosts within the Center for Services of Islamic Seminaries 
and Islamic Propagation Office of Qom.

REFORMIST POLITICIANS 

The accounts of Iranian reformers are a primary target for Iranian threat actors. Though 
reformers profess loyalty to the revolution and the Islamic Republic, they favor less state 
intervention in society and a less confrontational foreign policy, prioritizing the country’s 
national interests before revolutionary ideology. Consequently, they have been increasingly 
purged from Iranian politics and there is a media and travel ban against their most promi-
nent leader, former president Mohammad Khatami (who served from 1997 to 2005).116 

After the Green Movement, associates of the former reformist presidential candidates 
Mehdi Karroubi and Mir-Hossein Mousavi were aggressively targeted by the regime 
to try and stifle their activities, even those who had fled under threat of prosecution. 
Unwilling to allow a repeat of the Green Movement, the regime tightened information 
controls in the run-up to the 2013 presidential election of Hassan Rouhani. Access to 
popular anticensorship tools was cut off, and internet speeds were throttled until after 
the election results were announced.117 During this time, several Iranian actors began to 
concurrently target the accounts of Iranian political dissidents.118 Offline, the families of 
international Persian-language media employees were harassed, and reporters inside Iran 
were subject to censorship or arrest.119 

One of the first known cases of politically motivated hacking in Iran was when the blog 
of Mohammad-Ali Abtahi, the former vice minister of the Ministry of Culture and 
Islamic Guidance under Khatami, was defaced after he wrote about the arrest of bloggers 
in 2005.120 Since then, Abtahi has been repeatedly targeted and impersonated by differ-
ent Iranian threat actors in credential theft and social engineering operations.121 Abtahi’s 
experience is emblematic of such group’s priority on reformists. Public figures in the re-
formist movement from all different segments of society and politics have been targeted. 
Not only the overtly repressed activists connected to Khatami, Karroubi, and Mousavi 
but former government officials, religious scholars, politicians, and professors. 

42         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

The cyber operations against reformists have been broad, successful, and frequent. One 
threat actor maintained access to a computer used by a reformist cleric and a deputy at a 
prominent Iranian university for months, watching him conduct political operations and 
media interviews.122 Similarly, in December 2015 the Facebook account of Gholam Ali 
Rajaee, a political activist close to former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, was used 
to spearphish the accounts of journalists and others.123 
The previous year, that same threat actor, Rocket Kit-
ten, had also successfully compromised a number of 
former parliament members and other reformists in 
the diaspora, some of whom were later arrested. 

The cyber operations 
against reformists have  
been broad, successful,  
and frequent. 

Young activists mobilizing for reformists were targeted 
with malware and credential theft operations in the 
lead up to the February 2016 parliamentary election, 
particularly those connected to female candidates. The targeting often aligns with offline 
pressure from the IRGC and Intelligence Ministry: when the office of one reformist close 
to Rouhani was raided in May 2017, he was targeted in repeated spearphishing attempts. 
Despite the ascent of moderates to more positions of power, reformists remain a primary 
target of the government’s cyber capabilities.

MEDIA PROFESSIONALS 

Iranian cyber operations have repeatedly focused on journalists working with reformist 
media outlets and international satellite broadcasters that fall immediately outside the 
strict state-sanctioned narratives. Multiple Iranian threat actors conducted numerous 
credential theft attempts, using fake service notifications, against Iran-based foreign cor-
respondents and Iranian journalists working for prominent publications such as Shargh 
and the Iranian Labor News Agency. Similarly, freelance reporters inside Iran are fre-
quently compromised through fictitious personas that send them malware purporting to 
be news content. These campaigns have often targeted publications that would later be 
closed and journalists who would be detained by Iranian security forces. These incidents 
are also often timed with elections, normally periods when the government has more ag-
gressively prosecuted journalists. 

The case of Jason Rezaian, the Washington Post’s former correspondent in Iran, is illustra-
tive of state-aligned threat actors’ focus on foreign press working in Iran. Before his arrest 
on July 22, 2014, and eighteen-month imprisonment by the IRGC, Rezaian had been 
the target of concerted intrusion efforts by Flying Kitten. The threat actor attempted to 

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        43     

compromise Rezaian’s Hotmail and Gmail accounts on multiple occasions through cre-
dential theft attempts launched from fictitious security addresses; these attempts warned 
of spam being sent from the account and of other hacking threats. The emails were not 
themselves technically sophisticated, as the English used in the messages was poor and 
the approach was amateurish. However, the behavior in these incidents was unique in 
that Rezaian’s accounts were singled out from a small set of targets several months prior 
to his arrest.

RELIGIOUS MINORITIES 

Iranian religious minorities are obvious targets of the Iranian security forces, most 
notably adherents of the highly persecuted Baha’i faith, who have long been accused of 
promoting conspiracies against the Islamic government.124 With the widespread adoption 
of the internet, the Baha’i leadership, based mostly in the United States and Haifa, Israel, 
enjoyed new organizational and communication opportunities otherwise denied to them 
offline. Those same technologies, however, also gave the Iranian state new capabilities for 
intelligence gathering and propaganda dissemination against the Baha’i.

In April 2014, the Gmail account of a former director of external affairs for the U.S. Baha’i 
organization was accessed from inside Iran. The director had a history of international 
advocacy on behalf of the Baha’i Assembly that included testifying before Congress on the 
status of religious minorities in Iran. This made her a 
natural target for Iran. Fictitious LinkedIn and social 
media profiles previously employed against the U.S. de-
fense industry, including one claiming to be former UN 
ambassador John Bolton, were used to target the Baha’i 
director with credential theft attempts posing as reports 
on religious persecution. 

The ongoing targeting of the 
Baha’i and the defacement 
of their sites underscores 
the Iranian regime’s concern 
with organizations it 
perceives as subversive.

Prominent members of the faith, including the di-
aspora relatives of imprisoned Baha’i leaders in Iran, 
continue to be subjected to sustained cyber opera-
tions. Similarly, cutout groups as recently as February 

2017 defaced Baha’i sites with pro-regime propaganda coinciding with events such as 
the anniversary of the Islamic Revolution. The ongoing targeting of the Baha’i and the 
defacement of their sites underscores the Iranian regime’s concern with organizations it 
perceives as subversive and its use of disruptive attacks to buttress the ideological agenda 
of the state.

44         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

The religious targets of Iranian cyber operations have not been limited to aggressively 
marginalized groups such as the Baha’is but also include recognized religious commu-
nities such as Christians, Jews, Zoroastrians, and Sunni Muslims. In one example, a 
mainstream Jewish community leader in Tehran was compromised through malware and 
surveilled as he went about coordinating events and managing a local religious publica-
tion. Still other spearphishing campaigns have routinely targeted evangelical Christian 
converts, atheists, or new age religious sects. More broadly, a malware campaign posing 
as information on the persecution of Christian converts was sent to human rights orga-
nizations, and fictitious profiles have posed as religious minorities to infiltrate evangelical 
Persian-language networks.125

CULTURAL FIGURES

Iran-originating spearphishing campaigns have also targeted Iranian cultural figures—in-
cluding artists, musicians, comedians, cartoonists, and satirists—regardless of whether 
they reside in Iran or abroad. 

These campaigns have included the targeting and compromise of social media and email 
accounts for the Germany-based musician Shahin Najafi, multiple pop stars that left Iran 
after the Islamic Revolution, a Persian-Israeli singer, and an Iranian-born female metal 
musician based in the United States, among others. There have also been intrusions into 
devices and accounts associated with less prominent underground artists inside Iran and 
networks of fictitious social network profiles connected with Iranian death metal rock 
bands and hip-hop groups. These themes of targeting famous pop musicians and their 
staff—both inside Iran and abroad—are recurrent and do not focus solely on individuals 
critical of the establishment. 

Iranian security forces have publicly acknowledged their operations to identify individuals 
involved in “immoral behavior” online. In January 2016, several Iranian fashion models 
popular on social media were arrested for their activities online and forced to delete their 
accounts, an effort labeled by the IRGC as Operation Spider. At the same time, the arrests 
of employees of the foreign-based AAA Music television channel led to their social media 
accounts being defaced with a message, purportedly from the Ministry of Intelligence, 
about the illegality of the network. In interviews with and public statements by those 
rounded up in Operation Spider, these individuals were commonly operating openly, and 
the defacements were conducted after they were forced to hand over passwords.

Operation Spider was not the first of its kind: the activities of Flying Kitten suggest an 
earlier interest in surveillance of the Iranian fashion industry.126 In early 2014, the threat 

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        45     

actor compromised the computer of a social media model that was popular for portray-
ing a fashionable lifestyle without wearing the state-mandated hijab.127 After the intru-
sion she retreated offline, stopped logging on to modeling sites, and deleted her Facebook 
account. Her image was also appropriated for further operations against other commu-
nities. The opaque nature of campaigns such as Operation Spider obscures how Iranian 
authorities track down people like online models. However, incidents such as the Flying 
Kitten compromise and the infiltration of LGBT-support networks and sex worker social 
media communities by others suggest a relationship between both efforts.

OPPOSITION GROUPS, TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS,  
AND ETHNIC SEPARATIST MOVEMENTS

Despite its labeling of civil dissent as a threat to national security, Iran does face real 
threats of terrorism and organized crime from nonstate actors, evidenced by the self-pro-
claimed Islamic State’s June 2017 attacks on its parliament and the mausoleum of former 
Iranian supreme leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. While documentation of Iranian 
cyber operations by international researchers has typically assumed that all domestic 
targets of intrusion campaigns are political dissidents, a small portion of these campaigns 
focus on areas in which law enforcement hacking has become internationally normalized, 
chiefly in the collection of evidence and intelligence on violent terrorist activities and 
financial crime.

For instance, Iranian threat actors have actively sought to compromise the digital opera-
tions of Sunni jihadi movements through credential theft, malware, and other intru-
sions.128 To compromise Islamist organizations, Iranian actors have leveraged bait docu-
ments and messages in Persian and Arabic and posed as media organizations such as Al 
Jazeera and Al Arabiya. Flying Kitten attempted to spread malware by posting comments 
on Al Arabiya’s Facebook page purporting to promote jihadism. These intelligence efforts 
have targeted jihadi groups across the Middle East and North Africa, Pakistan, and Af-
ghanistan, including the Islamic State and al-Qaeda, while focusing on Iraqi and Persian-
language groups.129 

Security-related cyber operations extend as well to fringe political organizations that have 
previously engaged in hostilities against the Islamic Republic.130 Iranian threat actors 
have successfully compromised individuals affiliated with front groups for Mojahedin-e 
Khalq (MeK) opposition group, including the Iranian American Society of Texas and 
the Simay Azadi television station. These intrusions provided access to private Facebook 
discussion groups and intra-organizational planning for MeK rallies, Telegram channels, 

46         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

and MeK television programming. Given the MeK’s past disclosures on Iran’s nuclear 
program, which the organization has claimed were conducted through an in-country 
network of collaborators, these activities also constitute a counterespionage program. 

Iranian threat actors also maintain a significant focus on disenfranchised ethnic minori-
ties advocating for greater autonomy. One recurrent target has been Baluchi groups, a 
Sunni Muslim population located in both Iran and Pakistan. The news outlets and social 
media accounts of Baluchi militant organizations, such as Jundallah, have repeatedly 
been targeted by Tehran. These operations include breaching multiple Jundallah affili-
ated sites as early as July 2010 to push malware to their visitors, a “watering hole attack” 
designed to surveil violent separatists that would be of interest to Iranian security agen-
cies.131 In other cases, from a different threat actor, Jundallah was targeted using malware 
hosted on domains purporting to be related to the Free Syrian Army and sent in emails 
claiming to provide documentation of attacks against the IRGC. 

Tehran has also devoted considerable resources to cy-
ber operations targeting Kurdish organizations inside 
Iran and abroad. Malware samples from April 2015 
targeted the Free Life Party of Kurdistan (PJAK), a 
militant Iranian faction of the Marxist-Leninist Kurd-
istan Workers’ Party (PKK).132 The same threat actor 
appears to have successfully compromised a Kurdish 
satellite television station, Newroz TV, aligned with 
the PKK. Newroz TV was also compromised by the 
Flying Kitten malware in 2014, indicating an overlap 
not only in the threat actors’ mandates but also in their exact targets. Still other groups 
have used fictitious LinkedIn profiles to connect to representatives of the Kurdistan 
Regional Government in Iraq. Judging from computer names and other indicators, many 
more of those compromised by Iranian malware were in Iran’s Kurdistan province, while 
others were found in Iraqi Kurdistan, or among the Kurdish population in Europe.

The internet has increased 
the Iranian government’s 
opportunities for 
surveillance and repression 
against foreign-based 
operations. 

CIVIL SOCIETY 

The internet has facilitated communication and organization between Iranians and 
foreign and diaspora organizations, but it has also increased the Iranian government’s op-
portunities for surveillance and repression against foreign-based operations. 

Though many foreign civil society organizations have been the subject of sustained at-
tempts at infiltration and disruption by Iran, few appear to have incurred attacks of such 
persistence and aggression as those against the Eurasia Foundation, an NGO in Washing-

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        47     

ton, DC, that conducts development programs in former Soviet countries, the Middle 
East, and China. As part of its Iran-focused social development programs, the Eurasia 
Foundation in October 2009 launched the Khorshid School of Entrepreneurship, which 
promoted women’s entrepreneurship through distance learning courses and the creation 
of professional networking opportunities.

Eurasia Foundation’s programs and organizational history connect closely with Khame-
nei’s fears of a Velvet Revolution. It would later launch several more online Persian-
language programs covering a range of issues, from social entrepreneurship to family law. 
The first intrusion attempt occurred shortly after an article was published in the hardline 
Iranian newspaper Kayhan in February 2014. It accused the Eurasia Foundation of en-
gaging in social engineering by establishing networks of women and teachers to foment 
grassroots economic, political, and social pressure on the regime—all under the direction 
of the U.S. Agency for International Development and the U.S. State Department. Ten 
days after the article appeared, Flying Kitten began its spearphishing campaign against 
the Eurasia Foundation. For the next two years, the Eurasia Foundation would continue 
to be the target of malware, credential theft, and social engineering by diverse threat ac-
tors with diverse strategies.133 

The campaign against the Eurasia Foundation is emblematic of Iran’s long and ongo-
ing history of cyber operations against U.S.-based NGOs. U.S. think tanks have been a 
focus of interest, with targets such as the American Enterprise Institute and the Council 
on Foreign Relations singled out by multiple Iranian threat actors. The same Iranians 
that targeted the Eurasia Foundation in December 2015 also impersonated the network 
administrators at multiple Washington, DC, foreign policy institutions critical of the 
Iranian government to compromise employees. 

Nor are these efforts directed only at Iran’s detractors. Organizations advocating im-
proved relations with Iran or nonpolitical researchers have been routinely targeted—the 
common denominator appears to be simply a policy interest in Iranian affairs.

48         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

CONCLUSIONS AND PRESCRIPTIONS

While Iran’s offensive cyber operations have required modest resources to develop, they 
have allowed Tehran to project itself as an emerging cyber power able to cause significant 
harm to its adversaries. The country’s security establishment has used these resources to 
signal to domestic and international audiences its ability to confront political subversion 
and retaliate against attacks on its infrastructure. These actions have brought interna-
tional attention to Iran as a considerable force, perhaps beyond its actual capabilities, but 
have been ambiguous enough to allow Tehran to portray itself as a victim of the coercive 
measures of foreign states. 

As judged from evidence of coordination between security agency actions and observed 
cyber operations, the campaigns of Iranian threat actors almost certainly have a direct re-
lationship with government entities, specifically the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps 
and the Ministry of Intelligence. Given this alignment and collaboration, Iranian threat 
actors are described here as state-sponsored. However, since the threat actors are com-
monly private contractors in small security companies, these relationships are sometimes 
nebulous and the operators are not integrated into the state’s forces.134 

Iranian cyber operations often reflect law enforcement behavior normalized by other 
countries in response to advancing information technologies, such as the hacking of 
devices to wiretap encrypted internet communications. International standards forums 
and telecommunication equipment vendors have legitimized the expectation of lawful 
interception of communications, and the Iranian government faces similar challenges of 
providing domestic security against terrorist organizations and crime that other coun-

49

tries encounter. These interests are expressed frequently in campaigns, which include the 
documentation of persistent targeting of militant organizations—both domestic and 
regional—that are hostile to the Iranian government, including Baluchi separatists and 
the Islamic State. 

With the exception of Saudi Arabia, Iran appears to have had little success in compro-
mising hardened government institutions or well protected organizations. After two 
decades of cyber crime, governments and private corporations have developed security 
policies and maintain collaborative relationships with external security organizations (for 
example, computer emergency readiness teams, or CERTs) that allow them to defend 
against attacks. In the office environment, companies can provide dedicated technical 
resources, exercise centralized control over devices, offer user education, and install pro-
tective network equipment that reduces risk. Such resources enable the private sector and 
governments to respond to threats and improve awareness collectively as a community.

Private threat intelligences companies and governmental agencies, such as the FBI’s Cyber 
Watch (CyWatch), provide corporations with regular reports on common security risks, 
including information on the attacker’s documented tools and infrastructure. The FBI has 
produced industry notifications on Iranian intrusion activities based on reports sourced 
from the private sector, and U.S. government entities have identified Iranian malware 
through information supplied from threat intelligence companies. When multiple comput-
ers in the Voice of America’s Persian service were infected by Iranian malware named Infy, 
the agent’s origin was identified by network administrators through a private report gener-
ated by a threat intelligence company that was made available to the agency.135

Such resources are not readily available to individuals—especially those residing in 
Iran—who find themselves alone and unprepared when targeted by even the most 
unsophisticated threat actors. While American banks quickly invested in countermea-
sures that limited the effectiveness of subsequent DDoS attempts in Operation Ababil, 
Persian-language social media platforms and media organizations subject to the same 
attacks commonly turned off services rather than pay thousands of dollars in band-
width costs.136 One FBI notice sent to the private sector even documented fictitious 
profiles that were also used to target the Baha’i community.137 However, the FBI and 
cybersecurity companies do not commonly notify at-risk communities of threats to 
their safety and privacy. This divergence and exclusion represents the differences in 
opportunities afforded to nongovernmental and noncorporate targets of state-aligned 
threat actors.

The increased attention to user security by information technology companies in re-
cent years has directly benefited the targets of Iran. Persian-language digital literacy and 

50         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

information security education programs have been developed through foreign assistance 
to cater to at-risk audiences, teaching concepts such as password management and how 
to recognize social engineering. Widely available account features such as two-factor 
authentication, which requires a user to provide a code sent through text message or an 
application to log into accounts, have demonstrably made it more difficult for Iranians 
to conduct credential theft. Private companies, such as Google and Cloudflare, as well as 
government funders, have supported DDoS-mitigation services that provide civil society 
organizations with enterprise-level defense resources to protect against such attacks at no 
cost, leading to a marked decrease in their frequency. 

As a result, a well-educated user with two-factor authentication and an iOS device is a 
more difficult target for Iranian threat actors to compromise. However, while technologi-
cal options for protecting accounts and devices have improved in recent years, in the end 
the biggest vulnerability remains the user. 

Attempts to forecast the future of Iranian cyber operations are constrained by the secrecy 
on the part of the Iranian state about its activities and an uncertain geopolitical climate. 
Like most countries, Tehran does not appear to have a clear doctrine as to when it will 
engage in disruptive operations and retaliate in cyberspace. Nor is it likely to. In line 
with its asymmetric strategies in traditional warfare, Tehran has often benefited from 
ambiguity. This may explain why it denies operations attributed to it, as well as why it 
did not immediately incorporate threat actors into the military apparatus. 

Having been the target of sustained cyber espionage and destructive attacks, Iran is 
bound to seek the same capabilities used against it. These capabilities provide Tehran op-
portunities to impose costs during potential hostili-
ties. While Iran may not appear able to perform syn-
chronized multistage attacks wherever it would like, 
it can repeatedly hammer away at soft targets in cam-
paigns of attribution. Renewed hostilities between 
Iran and the United States could be expected to 
involve the targeting of vulnerable economic, civil-
ian, and governmental services with data destruction, 
DDoS, and other disruptive attacks. Under current 
perceptions of Iranian offensive cyber capabilities, it 
is unclear that it would be prepared and able to launch attacks against the power grid or 
industrial control systems, such as those conducted against Ukraine.138 Instead, attacks 
would follow the path of least resistance—targeting state and local governments rather 
than federal infrastructure, or unprepared sectors that have not been previously targeted 
such as transportation and logistics rather than the financial services. Attempts by one 

Having been the target of 
sustained cyber espionage 
and destructive attacks, Iran 
is bound to seek the same 
capabilities used against it. 

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        51     

Iranian to meddle with a local New York dam and other reports about the compromise 
of state agencies are demonstrative of the abundance of opportunities for Iran to retaliate 
against the United States.139 

Moreover, although Iran has been described as a rational actor, it is not unitary, as the 
overlapping operations and intragovernmental surveillance conducted by the Ministry of 
Intelligence and IRGC demonstrate.140 The motivations, coordination, and authorization 
of Iranian state-aligned campaigns may differ from the policy position of other branches 
of government, and the use of offensive cyber capabilities is less visible to observers than 
the mobilization of troops. Iran’s security apparatus can easily conduct hostilities in cy-
berspace without the consent or awareness of the rest of the government.

Disruptive activities conducted by Iranian threat actors have decreased overall since the 
interim nuclear deal signed in November 2013—known as the Joint Plan of Action 
framework. The rhetoric of government and military officials has also evolved over time. 
In recent years, particularly under the Rouhani administration, fewer blusterous state-
ments have been made regarding Iran’s cyber operations.141 While Tehran is less likely to 
engage in disruption of American or European infrastructure amid current circumstanc-
es, it has engaged in cyber espionage and will continue to do so. The perceived success of 
previous campaigns has solidified the principle of offensive cyber operations as an effec-
tive means for Iran to continue to conduct espionage and surveillance against regional 
adversaries and political opponents. 

Yet Iran will continue to be limited by resource constraints for the foreseeable future. 
Tehran has rarely appeared able to conduct large-scale exfiltration of classified business 
and government data, differing, for example, from Chinese efforts to steal Boeing’s in-
dustrial secrets or extensive databases from the U.S. Office of Personnel Management.142 
What’s more, the threshold of difficulty for compromising such targets will increase over 
time, and it is unclear whether Iranian capabilities will improve proportionally. 

Iran’s massive brain drain, with many of its brightest engineers leaving for political and 
economic reasons, imposes further constraints on the development of its cyber capabili-
ties. Iran’s minister of science, research and technology estimated that 150,000 highly 
talented people emigrate from Iran every year, a $150 billion annual economic loss.143 
When Iranian engineers leave for Silicon Valley and Europe, the country’s capacity for 
effective offensive and defensive cyber operations goes with them. 

In the absence of a historical comparison of Iranian cyber operations, new incidents or 
the rise of new groups is often incorrectly perceived as a dramatic improvement to capac-
ity. Despite systemic challenges stemming from bureaucratic dysfunction and under-
investment in cybersecurity, Iran has the potential to foster more effective operations. 

52         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

Attempts by the government, universities, and the private sector to create a professional 
cybersecurity community, such as hosting Capture the Flag tournaments, will inevitably 
result in a deeper talent pool. Observing other nation-state actors provides a set of bench-
marks that can be a reliable indicator of improvement or change in posture, including:

• 

• 

• 

• 

coordination of threat actors, more consistent improvement to domestically pro-
duced malware, and the development of purpose-built tools that could suggest the 
consolidation of capability, specialization of personnel, and even incorporation into 
the state;

investments in operational security, ranging from reducing the exposure of informa-
tion on operators to increased investment in concealment (such as Magic Kitten’s 
relay network);

improvements in background research and foreign language abilities within opera-
tions, such as more personalization of social engineering attempts, that would reflect 
the inclusion of nontechnical support staff; and 

execution of operations that include zero-day exploits or target core infrastructure 
(for example, compromising network devices, routing protocol hijacks, and telecom-
munications signaling manipulation), suggesting more investment in resources for 
systemic cyber operations.

Despite Iran’s current lack of technical sophistication, simple means can still be effective 
at imposing political and economic costs, as evidenced by Russia’s successful compromise 
and subsequent leaking of the internal communications of Democratic Party institutions 
and operatives before the 2016 U.S. election. Some of the most damaging materials used 
in the operation came via a simple breach of a Gmail account, an opportunity available 
to anyone. This also reinforces the challenge of discerning intent—what initially appears 
as espionage can later turn into an attack.144

Given Iran’s dispersed ecosystem of threat actors, deterring Tehran from engaging in 
offensive cyber operations is as challenging as other efforts to address security issues 
involving the country. Cyber activities are less likely to lead to regional destabilization 
than are offline Iranian threats, and historically, Tehran’s disruptive attacks against non-
Iranian targets have been retaliation during hostilities rather than instigation toward 
new conflicts. To maintain credibility at a time when Western surveillance activities 
are publicly exposed through leaked confidential documents, effective policy responses 
need to differentiate espionage or signaling from sabotage or the infringement of human 
rights, actions that violate international norms. It is also important to recognize that 
Iranian offensive cyber operations do not require technology transfers or the support of 
other states. Members of Iranian threat actors—primarily low-level software developers 

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        53     

working within a small number of companies—will continue to be tough to identify, 
prosecute, and punish. 

Naming and shaming may chill participation in state-aligned operations, especially 
among talented individuals looking to travel outside the country or study abroad. 
However, it is unclear whether those publicly identified with Operation Ababil or other 
campaigns have changed their involvement after being outed. Moreover, the loosely 
connected and small groups are not cost-effective targets for retaliatory cyber operations. 
In the end, Iran maintains a large enough pool of sufficiently capable programmers to 
conduct basic campaigns. Therefore, while exposing Iranian cyber operations and opera-
tors may degrade and delay the development of better cyber capabilities, it will not fully 
deter Iran.

POLICY APPROACHES TO IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

This leaves a select number of policy options, primarily (1) utilizing existing frameworks 
for targeted sanctions or indictments, (2) improving information sharing on threats 
across communities, and (3) supporting initiatives to improve information security. 

The comprehensive sanctions regime against Iran is unlikely to substantially interfere 
with its development of offensive cyber capabilities. Iranians commonly use servers 
outside the country, typically hosted on networks in Europe and Russia that provide 
service to other cyber crime networks (bulletproof hosting) or registered using false 
information.145 Since the resources necessary to improve capacity are organizational and 
professional development rather than computers or 
infrastructure, there are few technological items or 
services that could potentially be deterred. Further-
more, overly broad sanctions regimes that attempt to 
constrain malicious cyber activities would be more 
likely to have substantial collateral damage on the 
free flow of information to Iran, as Iranian civil soci-
ety has widely argued. 

The U.S. Treasury 
Department’s Office of 
Foreign Assets Control 
maintains targeted 
programs that can be 
brought to bear against 
international entities that 
augment Iran’s capacity 
for surveillance against 
its population.

54         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

Where sanctions are appropriate, the U.S. Treasury 
Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control 
maintains targeted programs that can be brought 
to bear against international entities that augment 
Iran’s capacity for surveillance against its population 
(Executive Order 13606146) and those responsible for 

cyber operations against American infrastructure (Executive Order 13694).147 Sanctions 
and other financial mechanisms could be used to deter foreign countries or other actors 
from providing support to Iranian offensive cyber operations. Executive Order 13606 
offers an example in its authority to designate any entity, whether in Iran or elsewhere, 
that has facilitated the Iranian government in its “computer and network disruption, 
monitoring, and tracking.” While the order focuses on human rights, similar language 
could focus on Tehran’s attacks against critical infrastructure and espionage. The narrowly 
tailored extension of these authorities could help ensure that Iran’s cyber operations do 
not benefit from technology transfers or foreign assistance as Tehran expands its security 
and commercial ties, especially to countries such as Russia and China.

Additionally, the Justice Department has issued indictments against Iranians implicated 
in disruptive campaigns (the same individuals allegedly responsible for Operation Ababil 
were also designated under Executive Order 13694) and has successfully obtained the 
extradition from a third country of a hacker involved in the theft of military secrets.148 
Because of the small operational footprint of the groups, targeted sanctions or legal pro-
ceedings are more symbolic than disruptive, but few other opportunities exist to impose 
consequences on individuals who participate in operations. 

Given the level of rudimentary nature of its cyber operations, a purely political or legal 
response that is focused solely on deterring Iran would be ineffective toward addressing 
national cybersecurity risks. Any system that can be breached by Iranian groups is equally 
susceptible to others with similar sets of motivations, notably North Korea and Hamas. 
An effective policy response to the threats posed by Iran must focus on securing critical 
infrastructure overall.

Information sharing has been one of the most common strategies pursued by the United 
States, Europe, and the private sector to reduce the effectiveness of Iranian cyber opera-
tions. After the Aramco attack, the United States used its superiority in monitoring and 
attributing Iranian activities to strengthen intelligence relationships with its Arab allies 
in the Persian Gulf.149 This is an immensely valuable resource that should be extended 
where possible, and further support can be provided to regional allies. Similarly, the FBI 
has provided notifications to and facilitated information sharing with the private sector 
on specific Iranian campaigns. These efforts can be expanded to include more partners 
and to provide data to civil society organizations. 

Unlike traditional security issues, private individuals are more exposed to cyber op-
erations owing to the transnational and virtual nature of threats. This brings in more 
stakeholders, and increases the burden on individuals to protect themselves from crime 
and espionage. Responsibility to protect those users rests equally on the private sector 
and governments. Fortunately, internet platforms and communications services, like 

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        55     

Facebook and Google, have played a positive role in providing the tools to help individu-
als defend against attacks—even going so far as notifying users when they have been 
targeted by state-aligned campaigns, including those from Iran. These initiatives raise the 
bar for attackers and should be seen within tech companies as a core obligation of keep-
ing at-risk users safe. 

Discussions about securing dissidents would be incomplete without highlighting the 
pioneering role of the United States government and European development agencies 
in providing secure communications tools to activists—often referred to as the Internet 
Freedom agenda. Government funding has provided early stage investment for research-
ers and developers to produce prototypes and deployable products to protect activists and 
civil society that would not be the focus of the private sector. A significant proportion, if 
not majority, of Iranians that bypass the censorship regime do so using safe and reliable 
tools funded by the State Department and Broadcasting Board of Governors. Both have 
also supported the development of encryption tools such as Signal that have even been 
adopted by tech companies within their own messaging applications, demonstrating the 
importance of Internet Freedom as a public-private cooperation. 

The United States and European Union should continue to promote programs and 
norms on internet access and cybersecurity that prioritize the free and secure flow of 
information against challenges from countries such as Iran, China, and Russia. Aside 
from funding for civil society, this includes promotion of democratic values within 
internet governance frameworks, such as the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names 
and Numbers (ICANN) and the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). This 
also highlights the importance of domestic policy on Internet Freedom efforts: proposals 
to weaken information security products such as encrypted messaging applications would 
harm individuals in countries where rule of law is weak and backdoor access in commu-
nications networks is commonly repurposed for repression. 

As the history of Iranian offensive cyber operations demonstrates, the same actors 
responsible for espionage against the private sector engage in surveillance of human 
rights defenders, and with considerably more success, owing to the targets’ resource 
constraints. These at-risk communities provide a canary for the tactics and tools that 
will be employed against other targets, and increased information exchange will enable 
more effective education and mitigation strategies for all. Policymakers have long under-
stood that the changes that will lead Iran to be a productive member of the international 
community will come from within. The safety and security of the Iranian civil society 
organizations and democratic voices targeted by government cyber operations should 
be recognized and protected as the critical stakeholders within cybersecurity and foreign 
policy discussions that they are.

56         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

GLOSSARY

Campaign: A set of activities carried out by threat actors for some particular purpose.

Credential theft: The process of stealing credentials associated with online platforms, 
such as passwords or account recovery information.

Distributed denial-of-service (DDoS): An attempt to make an online service unavail-
able by overwhelming it with traffic from multiple sources.

Offensive cyber operations: Cyberspace operations intended to project power by the 
application of force in or through cyberspace. 

Sinkhole: Redirection of malicious internet traffic so that it can be captured and ana-
lyzed by security researchers.

Spearphishing: A targeted attack that uses a deceptive email to trick the recipient into 
performing some kind of dangerous action for the adversary.

Supply chain attack: The strategic compromise of a particular entity, such as a vendor, 
with the intent to indirectly compromise another, primary target, such as the vendor’s 
clients.

Threat actor: An individual or group involved in malicious cyber activity.

Watering hole attack: The compromise of a selected website in order to stage intrusion 
attempts through malware to the visitors of the site.

57

NOTES

1 

“Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms,” Federation of American 
Scientists, amended February 15, 2016, https://fas.org/irp/doddir/dod/jp1_02.pdf.

2  The authors cannot identify under what level of authority the attacks are authorized and whether Iran 

will professionalize such operations under state security forces. However, they can say with high 
confidence that such activities are coordinated with the Iranian government. See Jason Healey, “Beyond 
Attribution: Seeking National Responsibility for Cyber Attacks,” Atlantic Council, February 22, 2012, 
http://www.atlanticcouncil.org/publications/issue-briefs/beyond-attribution-seeking-national- 
responsibility-in-cyberspace. 

3  This material will posted on “Iran Threats,” Github, https://iranthreats.github.io.
4  GReAT, “The Madi Campaign – Part I,” SecureList, July 17, 2012, https://securelist.com/blog/

incidents/33693/the-madi-campaign-part-i-5.

5  David E. Sanger, “Obama Order Sped Up Wave of Cyberattacks Against Iran,” New York Times, June 1, 

2012, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/01/world/middleeast/obama-ordered-wave-of-cyberattacks-
against-iran.html.

6  The preparation for Operation Olympic Games was substantial. Intelligence agencies in the United 
States and Israel obtained confidential information about the specific configuration of the centrifuge 
controllers in Natanz, built a test environment based on comparable hardware seized from Libya, and 
then deployed the malware agent through human assets inside Iran to reach computers disconnected 
from the internet. These operations were sustained over years. Later versions of Stuxnet exploited several 
previously unknown vulnerabilities and sought to strategically infect other computers in Iran in the 
event that they were connected to the Natanz systems. 
Iran’s National Computer Emergency Response Team, Kaspersky Lab, and CrySyS Lab.

7 
8  Ellen Nakashima, Greg Miller, and Julie Tate, “U.S., Israel Developed Flame Computer Virus to Slow 

Iranian Nuclear Efforts, Officials Say,” Washington Post, June 19, 2012, https://www.washingtonpost 
.com/world/national-security/us-israel-developed-computer-virus-to-slow-iranian-nuclear-efforts- 
officials-say/2012/06/19/gJQA6xBPoV_story.html.

59

9 

“Iran Says Detected ‘Massive Cyber Attack:’ State TV,” Reuters, June 21, 2012, https://www.reuters 
.com/article/us-iran-cyber-nuclear/iran-says-detected-massive-cyber-attack-state-tv-idUS-
BRE85K1EA20120621.

10  “Iran ‘Fends Off New Stuxnet Cyber Attack,’” BBC News, December 25, 2012, http://www.bbc.com/

news/world-middle-east-20842113.

11  Communications Security Establishment Canada, “SNOWGLOBE: From Discovery to Attribution,” 
accessed December 4, 2017, a presentation discussing the French malware otherwise known as Babar, 
available at http://www.spiegel.de/media/media-35683.pdf.

12  Karim Sadjadpour, “Reading Khamenei: The World View of Iran’s Most Powerful Leader,” Carnegie 

Endowment for International Peace, March 10, 2008, http://carnegieendowment.org/files/sadjadpour_
iran_final2.pdf.

13  “15 June 2009 – Tehran – Iran – Protest continued – Protesters Are Going to Freedom (Azadi Sq),” 

YouTube video, 1:02, posted by “saeidkermanshah,” June 15, 2009, https://www.youtube.com/
watch?v=9_hr7G4At84.

14  A common example of this collaboration is when Twitter had planned to conduct maintenance after the 
June 2009 election. The State Department requested that the company delay the downtime in consider-
ation of the protests. See Sue Pleming, “U.S. State Department Speaks to Twitter Over Iran,” Reuters, 
June 16, 2009, http://www.reuters.com/article/us-iran-election-twitter-usa-idUS-
WBT01137420090616. More aggressively, in an opinion piece in the Wall Street Journal, a former 
under secretary of state and an assistant secretary of defense advocated for increased funding for 
communications tools and foreign broadcasting efforts with the express intent to “undermine the 
regime in Tehran.” See James K. Glassman and Michael Doran, “The Soft Power Solution in Iran,” Wall 
Street Journal, January 21, 2010, http://www.wsj.com/articles/SB100014240527487045410045750113
94258630242. 

15  The day before the March 2012 Iranian parliamentary elections, employees of the BBC were unable to 
access their email owing to a DDoS attack attributed to Iran. The Mujahedin-e Khalq has also claimed 
that when its former encampment in Iraq, Camp Liberty, was attacked in February 2013, its websites 
were subjected to a sustained DDoS attack designed to interfere with reporting. “Cyber-attack on BBC 
Leads to Suspicion of Iran’s Involvement,” BBC News, March 14, 2012, www.bbc.com/news 
/technology-17365416.

16  One document used as bait in the malware campaign appears to be a secret letter from the Ministry of 
Intelligence to members of the religious establishment in Qom concerning the protests over subsidies. 
Another displayed maps in Tehran describing protest routes toward Azadi Square, mirroring the 
activities on the ground. The malware agent would arise again over time in attempts to compromise the 
American defense industrial base in May 2014, and again in the Shamoon 2 attacks.

17  Black Tulip: Report of the Investigation Into the DigiNotar Certificate Authority breach (Delft: Fox-IT BV, 

2012), https://www.rijksoverheid.nl/binaries/rijksoverheid/documenten/rapporten/2012/08/13/
black-tulip-update/black-tulip-update.pdf. In a confidential document on its own ability to monitor 
secure traffic, the UK Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ) provides an account of 
the DigiNotar event, discovered in the course of its own espionage on Iran. GCHQ asserts that an 
Iranian intelligence agency added a specific rule in an internet router that forced Google’s traffic 
through an alternative route inside the country. “Profiling SSL and Attributing Private Networks,” 
GCHQ, December 28, 2014, https://edwardsnowden.com/2015/01/07/profiling-ssl-and- attributing-
private- networks/.

18  Akbar Ganji, “Iran’s Green Movement Five Years Later – ‘Defeated’ But Ultimately Victorious,” 

Huffington Post, accessed December 4, 2017, https://www.huffingtonpost.com/akbar-ganji/iran-green-
movement-five-years_b_5470078.html.

60         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

19  The most conspicuous and potentially only counterexample could be Oilrig, which across a multiple 
year history appears primarily focused on foreign targets and has not been publicly linked to attacks 
against Iranians. 

20  Figures for both the United States and Iran are kept secret, however, a leaked intelligence budget for the 
2013 provides some insight into how cyber operations are funded. Barton Gellman and Ellen Nakashi-
ma, “U.S. Spy Agencies Mounted 231 Offensive Cyber-Operations in 2011, Documents Show,” 
Washington Post, August 30, 2013, https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/us-spy-
agencies-mounted-231-offensive-cyber-operations-in-2011-documents-show/2013/08/30/d090a6ae-
119e-11e3-b4cb-fd7ce041d814_story.html. 

21  “Minister: Iran Faces 500 Daily Cyber Attacks,” Khabar Online, November 10, 2012, http://english 

.khabaronline.ir/detail/183007.

22  “We just want to monitor (enemies’) cultural and social moves in cyber,” quoted in “IRGC to Set Up 
Division to Defend Iran Against Cyber Threats,” Sahar TV, October 16, 2012, http://english.sahartv.ir/
news/irgc-to-set-up-division-to-defend-iran-against-cyber-threats-1638.

23  “Statement by Foreign Ministry Spokesman for Indictment of US Justice Department Against Seven 

Iranian Citizens,” Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, March 26, 2016, http://mfa.gov.ir/index.aspx?fke
yid=&siteid=1&pageid=2122&newsview=385735.

24  Alexander Gostev, “What Is Flame Malware?,” Kaspersky Lab, accessed December 5, 2017, https://

www.kaspersky.com/flame.

25  “US Cyber Attack on Iranian Oil Ministry Foiled,” FARS News Agency, May 26, 2015, http://

en.farsnews.com/print.aspx?nn=13940305001092.

26  “Iran Unveils 12 Cyber Products,” FARS News Agency, December 14, 2013, http://en.farsnews.com/

newstext.aspx?nn=13920923001322.

27  “Iranian Internet Infrastructure and Policy Report: Special Edition – The Rouhani Review (2013–15),” 
Small Media, 2015, https://smallmedia.org.uk/sites/default/files/u8/IIIP_Feb15.pdf; Office of the Press 
Secretary, “Fact Sheet: Cybersecurity National Action Plan,” White House, press release, February 9, 
2016, https://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/the-press-office/2016/02/09/fact-sheet-cybersecurity-
national-action-plan; and Steve Morgan, “Bank of America’s Unlimited Cybersecurity Budget Sums Up 
Spending Plans in a War Against Hackers,” Forbes, January 27, 2016, https://www.forbes.com/sites/
stevemorgan/2016/01/27/bank-of-americas-unlimited-cybersecurity-budget-sums-up-spending-plans-
in-a-war-against-hackers/#694de941264c.

28  Barbara Slavin and Jason Healey, “Iran: How a Third Tier Cyber Power Can Still Threaten the United 

States,” Atlantic Council, July 29, 2013, http://www.atlanticcouncil.org/publications/issue-briefs/
iran-how-a-third-tier-cyber-power-can-still-threaten-the-united-states.

29  Recent espionage incidents targeting U.S. State Department employees have been described in the press 

as “attacks” that sought to “jab at the United States and its neighbors without provoking a military 
response.” Despite the implication of aggression, the incident appeared to be motivated for espionage. 
David E. Sanger and Nicole Perlroth, “Iranian Hackers Attack State Dept. via Social Media Accounts,” 
New York Times, November 24, 2015, http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/25/world/middleeast/
iran-hackers-cyberespionage-state-department-social-media.html.

30  Michael N. Schmitt, “Cyber Operations and the Jus Ad Bellum Revisited,” Villanova Law Review 

(December 2011): 569–605.

31  Michael N. Schmitt, Tallinn Manual on the International Law Applicable to Cyber Warfare (Cambridge: 
Cambridge University Press, 2013). U.S. officials have acknowledged that international law applies to 
actions in cyberspace as well. Patrick Tucker, “NSA Chief: Rules of War Apply to Cyberwar, Too,” 
Defense One, April 20, 2015, http://www.defenseone.com/technology/2015/04/nsa-chief-rules-war-
apply-cyberwar-too/110572/.

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        61     

32  Carmen-Cristina Cîrlig, “Cyber Defence in the EU: Preparing for Cyber Warfare?,” briefing, European 

Parliament, October 2014, http://www.europarl.europa.eu/EPRS/EPRS-Briefing-542143-Cyber-
defence-in-the-EU-FINAL.pdf.

33  As has been documented in intelligence material leaked by Edward Snowden: “Iran – Current Topics, 

Interaction With GCHQ,” Intercept, February 10, 2015, https://theintercept.com/ 
document/2015/02/10/iran-current-topics-interaction-gchq/.

34  International law also differentiates interference, nonviolent operations such as propaganda, and 

psychological operations, so long as they are not sufficiently coercive. Schmitt, “Cyber Operations and 
the Jus Ad Bellum Revisited.”

35  Tim Maurer, Cyber Mercenaries: The State, Hackers, and Power (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 

2018).

36  Ibid.
37  The tools and resources developed by Tehran have been almost uniformly described by outside 

investigators as unsophisticated, particularly in comparison with malware produced by other state and 
nonstate actors. The information security company Mandiant affirmed this observation in a 2014 
report: “Mandiant’s observations of suspected Iranian actors have not provided any indication that they 
possess the range of tools or capabilities that are hallmarks of a capable, full-scope cyber actor. They rely 
on publicly available tools and capitalize solely on Web-based vulnerabilities—constraints that suggest 
these cyber actors have relatively limited capabilities.” See: Mandiant, “M-Trends 2014 Annual Threat 
Report: Beyond the Breach by Mandiant, a FireEye Company,” accessed December 5, 2017, https://
www2.fireeye.com/fireeye-mandiant-m-trends-report.

38  For example, former representative Peter Hoekstra speculated at a U.S. House hearing that Iran’s 

advances in cyberwarfare came from the “cooperation they have with Russia.” Other former and current 
officials have commented, often on background, that Russia was a potential partner in warfare. For the 
subcommittee hearing on Iran’s support terrorism worldwide, see the following: “Iran’s Support for 
Terrorism Worldwide,” Foreign Affairs Committee, March 4, 2014, https://foreignaffairs.house.gov/
hearing/joint-subcommittee-hearing-irans-support-for-terrorism-worldwide/. Elsewhere, claims have 
been made by lesser known cybersecurity companies, but these analyses have been flawed and not well 
accepted. For more on these flawed analyses, see: Collin Anderson, “Bears and Kittens, and Startup 
Cybersecurity Companies,” Medium, May 18, 2017, https://medium.com/@collina/bears-and-kittens-
and-startup-cybersecurity-companies-5c8e037ea75c.

39  Steve Stecklow, “Exclusive: Huawei Partner Offered U.S. Tech to Iran,” Reuters, October 25, 2012, 

http://www.reuters.com/article/us-huawei-iran/exclusive-huawei-partner-offered-u-s-tech-to-iran-idUS-
BRE89O0E520121025; and “Iran and Russia Announce Plans for Cyber Security Cooperation,” 
YouTube video, 2:03, posted by “PressTV News Videos,” March 15, 2017, https://www.youtube.com/
watch?v=NaCukjiECWM.

40  This could be either indicative of the ceiling of Iran’s capabilities or reflective of Iran not facing the sort 
of existential threat that would provoke it to use any latent resources in its arsenal. The former appears 
more likely.

41  Rocket Kitten and Flying Kitten are examples of how the line demarcating intrusion groups is not 
always clear. The structural similarities of certain intrusion tools and the reuse of lesser known infra-
structure indicate that parts of Flying Kitten and Rocket Kitten may have had a common heritage, 
including common members and shared tools; see: Collin Anderson, “Flying Kitten to Rocket Kitten, A 
Case of Ambiguity and Shared Code,” Iran Threats, December 5, 2017, https://iranthreats.github.io/
resources/attribution-flying-rocket-kitten/. In the Shamoon 2 campaign, McAfee attributed unusual 
errors to the “involvement of different groups/individuals with different skills, whereas in 2012 we 
believe one group was responsible for the attack.” See: Christiaan Beek and Raj Samani, “The State of 

62         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

Shamoon: Same Actor, Different Lines,” McAfee, April 25, 2017, https://securingtomorrow.mcafee 
.com/executive-perspectives/state-shamoon-actor-different-lines/.

42  The authors associate Rocket Kitten with the IRGC due to its involvement in post-arrest hacking. For 

more on Rocket Kitten, see: “Rocket Kitten 2 – Follow-Up on Iran Originated Cyber-Attacks,” 
ClearSky Cybersecurity (blog), September 1, 2015, http://www.clearskysec.com/rocket-kitten-2. For 
more on Oilrig, see: Robert Falcone and Bryan Lee, “The OilRig Campaign: Attacks on Saudi Arabian 
Organizations Deliver Helminth Backdoor,” Palo Alto Networks, March 26, 2016, https:// 
researchcenter.paloaltonetworks.com/2016/05/the-oilrig-campaign-attacks-on-saudi-arabian- 
organizations-deliver-helminth-backdoor/.

43  Reportedly, the attacker found sensitive passwords saved in a file named “Administrator Passwords.”  

See: Sam Jones, “Cyber Warfare: Iran Opens a New Front,” Financial Times, April 26, 2016, http://app 
.ft.com/cms/s/15e1acf0-0a47-11e6-b0f1-61f222853ff3.html?sectionid=companies. No official numbers 
have been provided on the economic loss, and in its annual review report for the year, Aramco 
downplayed the impact of the attack. “Shaping Tomorrow: 2012 Annual Review,” Saudi Aramco, April 
10, 2013, http://www.saudiaramco.com/en/home/news-media/publications/corporate-reports/
annual-review-2012.html.

44  The caveat attending this statement is that it is possible more incidents and actors have yet to be 

disclosed.

45  Based on a Freedom of Information Act request by the authors to the Broadcasting Board of Governors 
on cybersecurity incidents related to Iran, which returned details of the attack, involving compromising 
the VOA’s account through impersonation with falsified documents sent through a fax.

46  The intruders were able to find a weakness in a web development server for the Bethlehem, Pennsylva-
nia, location, and doing so then gave them access to the internal corporate network. Benjamin Elgin 
and Michael Riley, “Nuke Remark Stirred Hack on Sands Casinos That Foreshadowed Sony,” Bloom-
berg, December 10, 2014, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2014-12-11/nuke-remark-stirred-
hack-on-sands-casinos-that-foreshadowed-sony.

47  Symantec Security Response, “Shamoon: Back From the Dead and Destructive as Ever,” Symantec 

Connect (blog), November 30, 2016, https://www.symantec.com/connect/blogs/shamoon-back-dead-
and-destructive-ever; “From Shamoon to StoneDrill: Wipers Attacking Saudi Organizations and 
Beyond,” Kaspersky Lab, July 3, 2017, https://securelist.com/files/2017/03/Report_Shamoon_Stone-
Drill_final.pdf.

48  ITSec Team, one of the companies cited in the indictment, has a known track record as the developer of 
a web penetration testing product (Havij Pro), and is attributed in a number of vulnerability disclosures 
and tools for controlling remote systems that have been made available to security researchers. The 
infrastructure used in the attacks even remains publicly exposed to the internet years after its use.
49  Seth Hardy, et al., “Targeted Threat Index: Characterizing and Quantifying Politically-Motivated 
Targeted Malware,” 23rd USENIX Security Symposium (2014): 527–41, https://www.usenix.org/
node/184440.

50  Jacob Appelbaum, Aaron Gibson, Claudio Guarnieri, et al., “NSA Preps America for Future Battle,” 

Der Spiegel, January 17, 2015, http://www.spiegel.de/international/world/new-snowden-docs-indicate-
scope-of-nsa-preparations-for-cyber-battle-a-1013409.html.

51  Curiously, when Google disclosed the spearphishing campaigns that Magic Kitten was involved in, it 
noted to the New York Times that there was a relationship between the operation and the DigiNotar 
incident. Nicole Perlroth, “Google Says It Has Uncovered Iranian Spy Campaign,” Bits (blog), New York 
Times, June 12, 2013, https://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/06/12/google-says-it-has-uncovered-iranian-
spy-campaign/.

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        63     

52  “CrowdStrike Global Threat Report: 2013 Year in Review,” CrowdStrike, January 2014, https://

scadahacker.com/library/Documents/Threat_Intelligence/CrowdStrike%20-%20Global%20Threat%20
Report%202013.pdf.

53  The lack of clarity in the slides is also compounded by the age of the document and could reflect an 

arrangement that is no longer in effect. However, within observations of activity, there does appear to be 
a clustering of victims, with some samples of the malware agent specifically used to compromise 
Lebanese and Qatari victims, but not Iranians or other targets of exclusive interest to Iran.

54  Members of the infamous Ashiyane hacking community and others commonly broke into Arabic media 

and U.S. government sites with political messages, such as protesting alternative names for the Persian 
Gulf, Western perceptions of Islam, nuclear rights, the administration of George W. Bush, and the 
crimes of other countries—often in broken English and always bearing attribution. In a few cases these 
campaigns were sustained over longer periods of time and were intended to make a point, especially 
when it came to Israeli and Saudi targets. “Al Khaleej Newspaper Website Hacked,” Gulf News, March 
7, 2017, http://gulfnews.com/news/uae/general/al-khaleej-newspaper-website-hacked-1.106195; 
Zone-H mirror page, “fdfhome.gsfc.nasa.gov hacked. Notified by Mafia Hacking Team,” archived on 
May 26, 2005, http://www.zone-h.org/mirror/id/7494752; Zone-H mirror page, “lvis.gsfc.nasa.gov 
hacked. Notified by Ashiyane Digital Security Team,” archived on August 11, 2005, http://www.zone-h 
.org/mirror/id/2757516; Zone-H mirror page, “technology.jpl.nasa.gov hacked. Notified by hamid,” 
archived on December 28, 2005, http://www.zone-h.org/mirror/id/3183620.

55  Aspects of this can be found in the individuals documented in Dan McWhorter, “APT1: Exposing One 

of China’s Cyber Espionage Units,” Mandiant, 2013, https://www.fireeye.com/content/dam/
fireeye-www/services/pdfs/mandiant-apt1-report.pdf.

56  Sheera Frenkel, “Meet the Mysterious New Hacker Army Freaking Out the Middle East,” BuzzFeed 
News, June 24, 2015, https://www.buzzfeed.com/sheerafrenkel/who-is-the-yemen-cyber-army; and 
Brian Bartholomew and Juan Andres Guerrero-Saade, “Wave Your False Flags! Deception Tactics 
Muddying Attribution in Targeted Attacks,” Virus Bulletin Conference (October 2016): 1–11, https://
cdn.securelist.com/files/2016/10/Bartholomew-GuerreroSaade-VB2016.pdf.

57  In its indictment, it even went as far as claiming that one individual had received relief from mandatory 

military service in return for participation. United States of America v. Ahmad Fathi et al., unsealed 
March 24, 2016, https://www.justice.gov/opa/file/834996/download. The attribution for the campaigns 
and indication of the American intelligence community’s early attribution of the participants are 
evident in screenshots from a presentation on the NSA’s CyberCOP program from April 2013, which 
describes the scale of the DDoS attacks and the infrastructure behind the botnet in its later phases of 
operation. See: “CyberCOP,” presentation, CyberCOP Product Manager, April 11, 2013, http://www 
.ndr.de/ratgeber/verbraucher/cybercop100.pdf.

58  Zone-H mirror page, “www.karroubi.ir hacked. Notified by Sun Army,” archived on February 17, 2010, 

http://www.zone-h.org/mirror/id/10269967.

59  Florian Egloff, “Cybersecurity and the Age of Privateering: A Historical Analogy,” Cyber Studies 

Program Working Paper no. 1 (Oxford: University of Oxford, March 2015), http://www.politics.ox.ac 
.uk/materials/centres/cyber-studies/Working_Paper_No.1_Egloff.pdf.

60  Richard Barger, “There’s Something About Mahdi,” Threat Connect, July 23, 2012, https://www 

.threatconnect.com/blog/there-is-something-about-mahdi/; and “Summary of Mortalkombat.com,” 
Wayback Machine Internet Archive, accessed September 17, 2017, https://web-beta.archive.org/
web/20080415000000*/m0rtalkombat.com.

61  Flying Kitten has also established Pars Security (Pars Pardazesh Hafez Shiraz). The FBI had made similar 

allegations not only for the culprits of Operation Ababil, companies named Mersad and ITSecTeam, 
but also in the Arrow Tech Associates theft. The FBI’s indictment claims that two other individuals 

64         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

formed a company, Andisheh Vesal Middle East Company, to steal software on behalf of the Iranian 
government. United States of America v. Mohammed Saeed Ajily and Mohammed Reza Rezakhah, 
unsealed July 17, 2017, https://www.justice.gov/opa/press-release/file/982106/download.

62  For those on the ground the threats posed are more complex and multifaceted. For example, Iranian 

telecommunications firms appear to have cooperated with the government in order to provide access to 
the recovery and two-factor authentication codes sent by text. These then allowed access to Google, 
Telegram, and other accounts on foreign platforms.

63  The most significant counterevidence of state-alignment is that when the Infy group was disclosed by 
Palo Alto in May 2016, the domains used in the communications of the malware were filtered by the 
censorship apparatus, blocking access to those victims. There are explanations for this action that would 
not conflict with the theory that Infy was acting on behalf of the government, including that the 
censorship was intended to hide evidence of the operation from the Iranian public. 

64  Specifically, we observed direct interactions between the Iranian state and the groups Charming Kitten, 
Flying Kitten, Magic Kitten, and Rocket Kitten. More tenuous links exist for Infy based on this criteria.

65  “Rocket Kitten: A Campaign With 9 Lives,” Check Point Software Technologies Ltd., November 9, 

2015, https://blog.checkpoint.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/11/rocket-kitten-report.pdf.

66  The incident was orchestrated by a threat actor who had registered domains under cmprus1394[@]

mail[.]ru and teymurov1984[@]gmail[.]com, which impacts a vast network of espionage and criminal 
activity.

67  United States of America v. Behzad Mesri, a/k/a “Skote Vahshat,” unsealed November 21, 2017, https://

www.justice.gov/usao-sdny/press-release/file/1013001/download.

68  Robin Wright, “An American Hostage in Iran – Again,” New Yorker, October 30, 2015, http://www 

.newyorker.com/news/news-desk/an-american-hostage-in-iran-again.

69  A dual national who had previously worked with a foreign broadcaster was arrested two weeks after his 
email was also compromised after a phishing attempt. According to one account, the attacker attempted 
to extract a ransom to keep the victim’s private information, which was ignored. Then, after the arrest, 
the accounts were again used to target others.

70  “Iranian Billionaire Babak Zanjani Sentenced to Death,” BBC News, March 6, 2016, http://www.bbc 

.com/news/world-middle-east-35739377.

71  These intrusions reflected a studied understanding of Sorinet’s operations and included names such as 

“Baharak Zanjani” that appear on the corporate registrations of the company’s subsidiaries but are 
believed to be false identities. See article in Farsi, Young Journalists Club, February 2, 2013, http://
www.yjc.ir/fa/news/4744029/%D9%85%D8%A7%D8%AC%D8%B1%D8%A7%DB%8C-%D8%
AE%D9%88%D8%A7%D9%87%D8%B1%D8%A7%D9%86-
%D8%AC%D8%B9%D9%84%DB%8C-%D8%A8%D8%A7%D8%A8%DA%A9-%D8%B2%D9
%86%D8%AC%D8%A7%D9%86%DB%8C.

72  Iranian security and intelligence agencies have however frequently used blackmail and humiliation to 
intimidate or coerce individuals, including BBC Persian journalists. It is possible that material compro-
mised through intrusions has been used for political manipulation, as this would be difficult to observe 
without acknowledgement from the victim. For examples of blackmail threats, see: Elise Knutsen, 
“Iranian Agents Blackmailed BBC Reporter With ‘Naked Photos’ Threats,” Arab News, November 19, 
2017, http://www.arabnews.com/node/1195681/media. 

73  Based on monitoring of known registration information used by Charming Kitten, suspicious domains 

include saudi-government[.]com and saudi-haj[.]com.

74  “Verfassungsschutzbericht 2015” (in German), German Ministry of the Interior, June 2016, https://

www.verfassungsschutz.de/de/download-manager/_vsbericht-2015.pdf; “Phishing uden fangst: 
Udenrigsministeriet under angreb” (in Danish), Center for Cybersikkerhed, Ministry of Defense, 

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        65     

January 2016, https://fe-ddis.dk/cfcs/CFCSDocuments/Phishing%20uden%20fangst.pdf; and 
“Security Warning-Shamoon 2,” CERT.sa, accessed December 5, 2017, http://www.cert.gov.sa/index 
.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=714&Itemid=0.

75  U.S. National Security Agency, “Iran – Current Topics, Interaction With GCHQ,” Intercept, written 

January 8, 2007, published February 10, 2015, https://theintercept.com/document/2015/02/10/
iran-current-topics-interaction-gchq/.

76  David Crawford, “U.N. Probes Iran Hacking of Inspectors,” Wall Street Journal, May 19, 2011, http://
www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424052748704281504576331450055868830. The IAEA would later 
be targeted by an Iranian hacktivist group, calling itself Parastoo, in November 2012, when a web server 
was compromised, and the information on its employees was posted online, with the implied threat of 
another Aramco attack. For Parastoo’s statement, see http://cryptome.org/2012/11/parastoo-hacks-iae 
a.htm.

77  First disclosed by Kaspersky Lab and Seculert in July 2012; see “The Madi Campaign – Part I,” 

SecureList. While researchers noted the religious implications of the inclusion of the word “mahdi.txt” 
in the malware’s operations, other versions appeared to include other Persian names and words such as 
“otahare.” It seems more likely that the inclusion was not meant as a religious declaration.

78  Later attributed by Cylance as Operation Cleaver. Unnamed U.S. government officials had character-
ized the breach as “carried out by hackers working directly for Iran’s government or by a group acting 
with the approval of Iranian leaders,” see: “U.S. Says Iran Hacked Navy Computers,” Wall Street 
Journal, September 27, 2013,https://www.wsj.com/articles/us-says-iran-hacked-navy 
-computers-1380314771.

79  ClearSky, “Jerusalem Post and Other Israeli Websites Compromised by Iranian Threat Agent CopyKit-

ten,” ClearSky Cybersecurity (blog), March 30, 2017, http://www.clearskysec.com/copykitten-jpost/; and 
“Brief Summary, 2016 Report on the Protection of the Constitution: Facts and Trends,” German 
Ministry of the Interior, 2016, https://www.verfassungsschutz.de/embed/annual-report-2016-summary 
.pdf.

80  Hillary R. Clinton investigation records, https://vault.fbi.gov/hillary-r.-clinton. See in particular 

Document 3, an FBI Interview from February 3, 2016. 

81  Direct observation of the targets of the Charming Kitten group. The email addresses and names of those 

targeted in these campaigns appear to have been sourced from the Podesta emails released by 
WikiLeaks. 

82  Alan Cowell, “Blast Kills Physics Professor in Tehran,” New York Times, January 12, 2010, http://www 

.nytimes.com/2010/01/13/world/middleeast/13iran.html; and Dan Raviv and Yossi Melman,  
Spies Against Armageddon: Inside Israel’s Secret Wars (BookBaby, 2014).

83  The attempted bombings occurred February 13, 2012, one month after the assassination of Mostafa 

Ahmadi Roshan (on January 11, 2012) and four years after the death of Imad Mughniyah (on February 
12, 2008).

84  First hand observation of the activities of the Charming Kitten group, similar to the successful 

operation described in the Operation Cleaver report by Cylance.

85  “Top Daily DDoS Attacks Worldwide: Saudi Arabia,” Digital Attack Map, January 2, 2016, http://
www.digitalattackmap.com/#anim=1&color=0&country=SA&list=1&time=16802.6&view=map.

86  “From Shamoon to StoneDrill,” Kaspersky Lab.
87  “‘Sophisticated’ and ‘Genius’ Shamoon 2.0 Malware Analysis,” Coding and Security, December 3, 

2016, https://www.codeandsec.com/Sophisticated-CyberWeapon-Shamoon-2-Malware-Analysis.

88  Symantec Security Response, “The Madi Attacks: Series of Social Engineering Campaign,” Symantec 
Connect (blog), July 17, 2012, https://www.symantec.com/connect/blogs/madi-attacks-series-social-
engineering-campaigns.

66         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

89  Kirk Soluk, “DDoS and Geopolitics – Attack Analysis in the Context of the Israeli-Hamas Conflict,” 

Arbor Networks, August 5, 2014, https://www.arbornetworks.com/blog/asert/ddos-and-geopolitics-
attack-analysis-in-the-context-of-the-israeli-hamas-conflict/.

90  Although one Israeli intelligence official has stated that “they are not the state of the art, they are not the 
strongest superpower in the cyber dimension, but they are getting better and better,” disclosing that Iran 
continues to attempt to compromise Israeli systems. Ari Rabinovitch, Tova Cohen, and Dan Pleck, 
“Iran’s Hacking Ability Improving: Israeli General,” Reuters, October 31, 2017, https://www.reuters 
.com/article/us-cyber-summit-padan/irans-hacking-ability-improving-israeli-general-idUSKBN-
1D02O0.

91  U.S. National Security Agency, “(U) Fourth Party Opportunities: I Drink Your Milkshake,” Der Speigel, 

published January 17, 2015, http://www.spiegel.de/media/media-35684.pdf.

92  Directly collected indicators from a sinkhole of malware associated with the Infy group.
93  For example, in Check Point’s Rocket Kitten report, included in the group’s infrastruture were domains 

mirroring the Afghan Ministry of Defense. Similar domains and targets can be found later that are 
connected to the same group. 

94  Directly collected indicators from the Infy group; discussed further in relation to Iran’s targeting of 

ethnical minority groups.

95  Directly collected indicators from the Flying Kitten group. The recipients of these spearphishing 

campaigns included a wide range of journalists and political groups, such as the Coordination Council 
of Yemen Revolution Youth, Yemen Center for Human Rights, Social and Democracy Forum of Yemen, 
and Yemen Parliamentarians Against Corruption. The leaked NSA slide indicates that Magic Kitten also 
breached Yemeni computers, but the nature of the targets is unclear, and the document predates the 
onset of the civil war in Yemen.

96  “Group5: Syria and the Iranian Connection,” Citizen Lab, August 2, 2016, https://citizenlab 

.org/2016/08/group5-syria/.

97  “Volatile Cedar: Threat Intelligence and Research,” Check Point Software Technologies Ltd., March 30, 

2015, https://www.checkpoint.com/downloads/volatile-cedar-technical-report.pdf.

98  One striking and related claim made in November 2017 was that the Iranian threat actor Oilrig had 

compromised Lebanese politicians in order to run an information operation in support of Hezbollah in 
the 2018 general election. See: Patrick Saint-Paul, “Téhéran sponsor d’un piratage massif contre le 
gouvernement d’Hariri” (in French), Le Figaro, November 26, 2017, http://www.lefigaro.fr/
international/2017/11/26/01003-20171126ARTFIG00124-teheran-sponsor-d-un-piratage-massif-
contre-le-gouvernement-d-hariri.php.

99  Michael Corkery and Matthew Goldstein, “North Korea Said to Be Target of Inquiry Over $81 Million 

Cyberheist,” New York Times, March 22, 2017, https://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/22/business/
dealbook/north-korea-said-to-be-target-of-inquiry-over-81-million-cyberheist.html?mcubz=0; “Lazarus 
Under the Hood,” Kaspersky Lab, April 3, 2017, https://securelist.com/files/2017/04/Lazarus_Under_
The_Hood_PDF_final.pdf.

100 United States of America v. Mohammed Saeed Ajily and Mohammed Reza Rezakhah.
101 “Iran Sanctions 15 U.S. Firms, Citing Human Rights Abuses and Israel Ties,” Reuters, March 26, 2017, 

http://www.reuters.com/article/us-iran-usa-sanctions-idUSKBN16X0DL.

102 Jaqueline O’Leary, Josiah Kimble, Kelli Vanderlee, and Nalani Fraser, “Insights Into Iranian Cyber 

Espionage: APT33 Targets Aerospace and Energy Sectors and Has Ties to Destructive Malware,” 
FireEye, September 20, 2017, https://www.fireeye.com/blog/threat-research/2017/09/apt33-insights-
into-iranian-cyber-espionage.html.

103 Ryan Gallagher, “The Inside Story of How British Spies Hacked Belgium’s Largest Telco,” Intercept, 

December 13, 2014, https://theintercept.com/2014/12/13/belgacom-hack-gchq-inside-story/.

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        67     

104 “Iran Telecoms, Internet Report 2016-2017,” Financial Tribune, April 26, 2017, https:// 

financialtribune.com/articles/economy-sci-tech/63062/iran-telecoms-internet-report-2016-17.

105 For example, the mobile chat applications and voice over internet protocol (VOIP) services, such as 

Viber, Skype, and Telegram, that became popular replacements for standard telephony and text 
messaging bypass the lawful interception capacities traditionally embedded in phone systems. 

106 One significant example is Telegram, which has reached over 40 million users in Iran as of 2017. As a 

result of its use of encryption, it is not susceptible to the filtering of specific content or keywords. While 
both Iranian authorities and Telegram have never been fully forthcoming about their relationship, it is 
clear that the former has attempted to incentivize and threaten Telegram into complying with requests 
for the removal of content—including briefly blocking the service in October 2015. While it appears 
that Telegram does take down pro–Islamic State content, it has not thus far complied with other 
requests.

107 Collin Anderson, “How Iran Is Building Its Censorship-Friendly Domestic Internet,” Backchannel 
(blog), Wired, September 23, 2016, backchannel.com/how-iran-is-building-its-censorship-friendly-
domestic-internet-11db69aae96d.

108 Joseph Menn and Yeganeh Torbati, “Exclusive: Hackers Accessed Telegram Messaging Accounts in 

Iran—Researchers,” Reuters, August 2, 2016, http://www.reuters.com/article/us-iran-cyber-telegram-
exclusive-idUSKCN10D1AM.

109 Fereydoun has been the target of a corruption investigation, which has been perceived as an attempt to 
undermine Rouhani. Regardless of the legitimacy of these claims, the attempts against Fereydoun began 
early in Rouhani’s first term and targeted his family. This extended into impersonating Zarif to target 
Fereydoun and vice versa. The long-term focus suggests the targeting was related to politics rather than 
the criminal investigation.

110 Aresu Eqbali, “Back Home, Iran’s Leader Tries to Sell Nuclear Deal,” Wall Street Journal, July 16, 2015, 

http://www.wsj.com/articles/back-home-irans-leader-tries-to-sell-nuclear-deal-1437081590.

111 Aresu Eqbali and Asa Fitch, “Iran Accuses Man Involved in Nuclear Deal Negotiations of Spying,” Wall 

Street Journal, August 28, 2016, https://www.wsj.com/articles/iran-accuses-man-involved-in-nuclear-
deal-negotiations-of-spying-1472416462.

112 Hanif Kashani, “Zarif, Attacked But Unscathed,” Iran Wire, September 17, 2013, https://en.iranwire 

.com/features/2665/.

113 Such as the use of mobile phone interception to capture login credentials for Telegram and Google 

accounts. In other cases, elaborate ruses appeared to be set up based on private political information in 
order to convince the target to run malware.

114 Based on data acquired through forensic investigations of Flying Kitten and Charming Kitten’s 

credential theft campaigns.

115 On April 19, 2016, the Google and Facebook accounts of Shahindokht Molaverdi, at that time Iran’s 

vice president for Women and Family Affairs, were compromised by Rocket Kitten in order to conduct 
a spearphishing campaign against women’s rights activists. 

116 The ban was imposed in February 2015. “Rouhani and Judiciary Clash Over Ban on Publishing Images 

of Former President Khatami,” Center for Human Rights in Iran, December 21, 2015, https://www 
.iranhumanrights.org/2015/12/khatami-media-ban-and-etelaat-newspaper/.

117 Collin Anderson, “Dimming the Internet: Detecting Throttling as a Mechanism of Censorship in Iran,” 

arXiv.org, June 18, 2013, http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.4361.

118 Specifically, Flying Kitten, Infy, and Magic Kitten.
119 “Iran Accelerates Crackdown on Media and Dissidents Prior to Election,” International Campaign for 

Human Rights in Iran, June 10, 2013, https://www.iranhumanrights.org/2013/06/iran_election/.

68         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

120 Parthisan, “Abtahi’s Blog Was Hacked for Revealing Torture Details,” Persian Students in the United-

Kingdom, January 2, 2005, hosted by Internet Archive, https://web.archive.org/web/20050123083526/
http://www.persianstudents.org/archives/001269.html.

121 Based on observation of the Rocket Kitten’s social engineering attempts against foreign human rights 

activists that appeared to use a breached account belonging to Abtahi.

122 Based on data acquired from a malware command and control server found through forensic investiga-

tion of Flying Kitten activity.

123 Gholam Ali Rajaee, “Warning!” (in Farsi), December 27, 2015, http://www.gholamalirajaee.blogfa.

com/post/1152/%D9%87%D8%B4%D8%AF%D8%A7%D8%B1.

124 “Iran: Baha’is Educating Their Youth Is a ‘Conspiracy’ Against the State,” Baha’i World News Service, 
July 27, 2011, http://news.bahai.org/story/843. In response to this persecution, the Baha’i community 
has become particularly adept at using the internet for international advocacy and countering exclusion, 
including offering online distance learning classes from the Baha’i Institute for Higher Education.

125 The Infy malware agent, as directly observed in January 2016.
126 Shima Shahrabi, “Iran’s New Criminals: Fashion Models,” Iran Wire, February 2, 2016, https://

en.iranwire.com/features/7058.

127 Based on data acquired from a malware command and control server found through forensic investiga-

tion of Flying Kitten activity.

128 FireEye (through its iSIGHT Partners) has also noted that threat actors focused on the Islamic State as 
the militant group was expanding its territory across Iraq, an interest expressed by the threat actors well 
before 2015. David E. Sanger and Nicole Perlroth, “Iranian Hackers Attack State Dept. via Social 
Media Accounts,” New York Times, November 24, 2015, http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/25/world/
middleeast/iran-hackers-cyberespionage-state-department-social-media.html.

129 In one case a shared computer in Erbil, Iraq, used by a Kurdish supporter of a Jordanian jihadi figure 
was compromised through the malware, which was delivered as personal pictures sent by a fictitious 
female social network profile. The same group maintained phishing sites with hard-coded references to 
Facebook pages associated with the Islamic State’s “Ministry of Information,” Tunisian Islamic Awaken-
ing, Lashkar-e-Khorasan (Pakistan), and al-Qaeda affiliates, among other Islamist movements. This 
targeting was broad, but more effort was spent on Persian-language or Iran-oriented actors, targeting 
Facebook pages as small as one with five members and one public post, a “Salafe Kurdistan” page.
130 The operations reflect old rivalries from the Islamic Revolution being played out, as Flying Kitten 

sought access to accounts and sites associated with Marxist-Leninist Fedaian and other Communist 
parties as well.

131 Some of the first observed operations of the Infy group targeted Taftaan News Agency and the Jonbesh e 

Moqavemat e Mardomi e Iran separatist group, and compromised computers in the province of Sistan 
and Balochistan over the course of several years. Shortly after the suspected time of intrusion, at least 
one of the affected blogs warned its visitors that an old email address connected to the site had been 
compromised by Iranian intelligence agencies. The following day the administrators closed the site, 
claiming technical issues. 

132 Several Infy malware samples had names such as “pjak.pps” and other references to Marxist ideologies 

(such as “kargar.pps,” or “worker”).

133 For example, current and former employees of the organization, both with the Iran Program and 

general operations staff, have been engaged by several fictitious personas on LinkedIn and Facebook, 
including the persona “Victoria Roberts,” the LinkedIn profile name described earlier as connecting 
predominantly with defense companies. The existing networks of these profiles reflect a specific interest 
in the American foreign policy establishment, international development programs, and the defense 
industrial base.

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        69     

134 Healey defines “state-integrated” as the “national government integrates third-party attackers and 

government cyber forces, with common command and control.” This still allows for informal coordina-
tion with external parties so long as the government remains in control. While Iranian threat actors 
receive tasking from the government, there is little indication that any of them are formal members of 
the security forces. 

135 Based on a Freedom of Information Act request by the authors to the Broadcasting Board of Governors 

on cybersecurity incidents related to Iran.

136 David M. Faris and Babak Rahimi, eds., Social Media in Iran: Politics and Society After 2009 (Albany, 

NY: SUNY Press, 2015).

137 An FBI notice sent to private industry on May 29, 2014, described a similar set of personas that 

expanded on the iSIGHT Partners’ (now FireEye) Operation Newscaster report that was released a few 
days prior. While iSIGHT Partners identified fourteen accounts of American or European background, 
the FBI provided a list of fifty-six unique personas, of which fifteen had family names that appeared to 
be Persian and had not been identified in the previous report. The accounts identified by the FBI have 
been since deleted, but appeared to have been Iran-focused. Federal Bureau of Investigation, “FBI 
Notification: Malicious Cyber Actors Targeting U.S. Government Networks and Employees,” Public 
Intelligence, June 23, 2014, https://publicintelligence.net/fbi-cyber-targeting-gov-networks/.

138 John Hultquist, “Sandworm Team and the Ukrainian Power Authority Attacks,” Threat Research (blog), 

FireEye, January 7, 2016, https://www.fireeye.com/blog/threat-research/2016/01/ukraine-and-sand-
worm-team.html.

139 “A Dam, Small and Unsung, Is Caught Up in an Iranian Hacking Case,” New York Times, March 25, 
2015, https://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/26/nyregion/rye-brook-dam-caught-in-computer-hacking-
case.html. FireEye (which owns Mandiant) has described multiple cases of “Iran-based network 
reconnaissance activity,” including unauthorized intrusions into several U.S. state government agencies. 
“FireEye Releases Annual Mandiant Threat Report on Advanced Targeted Attacks,” FireEye, April 10, 
2014, http://investors.fireeye.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=839454.

140 Alex Vatanka, “The Iranian Industrial Complex: How the Revolutionary Guards Foil Peace,” Foreign 

Affairs, October 17, 2016, https://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/iran/2016-10-17/iranian-industrial-
complex.

141 For example, when Iranian state–aligned media have covered such issues in recent years, it has typically 

been through republishing English-language reports without substantial further comment or by 
reporting on denials by the government, such as when Mashregh News covered Citizen Lab’s August 
2015 “London Calling” report and took issue with claims about attribution.

142 Adam Segal, “Why China Hacks the World,” Christian Science Monitor, January 31, 2016, http://www 

.csmonitor.com/World/Asia-Pacific/2016/0131/Why-China-hacks-the-world.

143 “Iran Loses $150 Billion a Year Due to Brain Drain,” MEHR News Agency, January 8, 2014, http://

en.mehrnews.com/news/101558/Iran-loses-150-billion-a-year-due-to-brain-drain.

144 Secure Works Counter Threat Unit, “ThreatGroup-4127 Targets Hillary Clinton Presidential Cam-

paign,” Secureworks.com, June 16, 2016, https://www.secureworks.com/research/threat-group-
4127-targets-hillary-clinton-presidential-campaign.

145 The compromises of several certificate authorities by “ComodoHacker,” the individual responsible for 

the DigiNotar breach, appear to have used a stolen Israeli credit card for registering domains used in the 
attack. 

146 Office of the Press Secretary, “Executive Order: Blocking the Property and Suspending Entry Into the 
United States of Certain Persons With Respect to Grave Human Rights Abuses by the Governments of 
Iran and Syria via Information Technology,” White House, news release, April 23, 2012, https:/ 
/www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/Programs/Documents/2012iran_syria_eo.pdf.

70         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

147 “Sanctions Related to Significant Cyber-Enabled Malicious Activities,” U.S. Department of the 

Treasury, last modified August 9, 2017, https://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/Programs/
pages/cyber.aspx.

148 Members of Iranian threat actors do travel to countries that the United States has successfully received 

extraditions from.

149 Cory Bennett, “White House Pledges Cyber Cooperation With Gulf Leaders,” Hill, May 14, 2015, 
http://thehill.com/policy/cybersecurity/242162-white-house-pledges-cyber-cooperation-with-gulf-
states; and Ellen Nakashima, “As Cyberwarfare Heats Up, Allies Turn to U.S. Companies for Expertise,” 
Washington Post, November 22, 2012, https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/
as-cyberwarfare-heats-up-allies-turn-to-us-companies-for-expertise/2012/11/22/a14f764c-192c-11e2-
bd10-5ff056538b7c_story.html?utm_term=.63ff1d99cfba.

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE        71     

CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT  
FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE

THE CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE   
is a unique global network of policy research centers in Russia, China, Europe, the Middle 
East, India, and the United States. Our mission, dating back more than a century, is to 
advance the cause of peace through analysis and development of fresh policy ideas and 
direct engagement and collaboration with decisionmakers in government, business, and 
civil society. Working together, our centers bring the inestimable benefit of multiple 
national viewpoints to bilateral, regional, and global issues.

THE CARNEGIE MIDDLE EAST PROGR AM combines in-depth local 
knowledge with incisive comparative analysis to examine economic, sociopolitical, and 
strategic interests in the Arab world. Through detailed country studies and the exploration 
of key cross-cutting themes, the Carnegie Middle East Program, in coordination with the 
Carnegie Middle East Center, provides analysis and recommendations in both English and 
Arabic that are deeply informed by knowledge and views from the region. The Carnegie 
Middle East Program has special expertise in political reform and Islamist participation in 
pluralistic politics throughout the region.

72         IRAN’S CYBER THREAT

