A single interface to protect your entire hybrid infrastructure
Ideally, you’d get to design a corporate cybersecurity system from scratch and then just update it from time to time. However, in the real world, that’s hardly ever an option. Change is part of business, and as your business expands in diverse and unanticipated ways, those changes necessitate considerable infrastructure changes — which, in turn, may require different security solutions.


The scenarios are infinite, and flexibility is key. For example, at one moment it might be more convenient to move some of your infrastructure to the cloud, whether for financial reasons or because divisions from multiple countries need access to it. And then, perhaps, you need to outsource a task, which means either giving an outsider access to your network (an added security risk) or launching a working environment in a public cloud, which adds another unknown quantity to your complex infrastructure equation. Not to mention the everyday elements you must juggle: all of the local workstations, and perhaps some virtualized workspaces.
Having a diverse local infrastructure plus your private cloud plus a public cloud — be it Amazon Web Services or Windows Azure — results in a very, very complex cybersecurity system that is often built from multiple, loosely connected parts. Complex systems are hard to administer, and they are more prone to having maintenance, and security issues.
At some point, you might dream of leaving all the legacy parts behind and implementing a new security solution that is capable of handling your diverse infrastructure. But that’s not always possible — often because of that very diversity. And public cloud systems have their own rules (no physical access to hardware or to hypervisors) only adds limitations.


To address this problem, we developed Kaspersky Hybrid Cloud Security, which can handle very diverse infrastructures. It helps administrators protect hybrid cloud infrastructures (the infrastructure you have in your own cloud and in public cloud services, such as AWS or Azure) and provide monitoring and administration through a single console. No matter where your servers are — on your premises, in a third-party data center, or in the private cloud — you will always have total control over their security measures without the need to implement different security solutions for each part.
Kaspersky Hybrid Cloud Security lets you protect servers running Windows Server or Linux OS as well as virtual desktop infrastructure, and it is compatible with the most popular public clouds (Microsoft Azure and Amazon Web Services). In terms of administration of the infrastructure, its best feature is that it is fully compatible with the very same Kaspersky Security Center console that also enables you to administer other Kaspersky Lab security solutions installed on physical workstations, servers, and mobile devices. That makes administration a significantly easier task and strengthens the security of your infrastructure, with its uniformity leaving less room for mistakes.
