Classified data and security
In our previous blogpost, we noted that cloud computing is actually an inherent part of antivirus protection infrastructure. The advantage of this kind of technology is obvious — but unfortunately, you can’t use it everywhere. Consider the many companies processing classified data or government secrets, or otherwise needing to comply with strict rules of protecting confidential information. For such companies, exchanging data between software on workstations and the external cloud is unacceptable; either internal restrictions or regulatory requirements obligate them to use trusted data channels only.
Classified data and #security.
However, usage of reputational technologies means that depersonalized metadata on the analyzed objects is being sent to cloud services. That is why a traditional cloud security solution can’t provide a sufficiently trusted data exchange for companies managing classified data; from the viewpoint of regulators any interaction with the cloud is a potential information leak channel. That is why a great many business users (especially government agencies) have been forced to eschew advanced cybersecurity cloud methods.
They have had no choice, that is, until now. Those customers may now enjoy the benefits of cloud reputation technologies with our customized solution, Kaspersky Private Security Network.
Fundamentally it is the same cloud service Kaspersky Security Network (KSN), but we redesigned it to work strictly within the customer’s infrastructure. It therefore ensures the privacy of all data processed.
Kaspersky Private Security Network’s design provides only unidirectional transmission of the data needed to check an object’s reputation. The data moves over secure, encrypted channels directly from expert systems in Kaspersky Lab’s infrastructure, and no information about any scanned objects (files, URLs, etc.) gets beyond solutions’ perimeter, thereby ensuring compliance with privacy requirements.
Kaspersky Private Security Network works strictly within the customer’s infrastructure. #cloud #security
We developed this solution to play well with local antivirus protection and to provide top-level malicious code detection, the highest possible reaction rate, and a minimum of false positives. In addition, our patented technologies deny third parties (including Kaspersky Lab) access to any of the data processed within the framework of our solution.
The structure of our solution is a “private cloud” that stores regularly updated reputational data about files, websites, and other potentially dangerous objects that can impair a company’s information security. Moreover, the data available via Kaspersky Private Security Network is identical to the data within the global Kaspersky Security Network.
Once Kaspersky Private Security Network’s servers are deployed — within the customer’s infrastructure — Kaspersky Endpoint Security for Business’s antivirus agents (and those of other Kaspersky Lab solutions) can access them with requests. Therefore, nothing exits the perimeter of the corporate network.
Companies have several options for implementing and employing Kaspersky Private Security Network. The most rigid way uses what you might call a data diode — a system that delivers updates from KSN servers to a specific proxy server located in the client’s open network. From there, updates are transferred to the closed network segment. System components communicate with one another using HTTPS and AMQPS. An option for a totally isolated network involves delivering updates by means of removable drives.
Thus, the new solution by Kaspersky Lab can meet strict information security requirements and simultaneously provide the latest information about cyberthreats.
