6 apps to help you simplify your life
When the iPhone and app store rolled out, there was a phrase that became ubiquitous to our lives becoming more connected: “There’s an app for that.” Fast-forward to 2016 and apps are everywhere and can help you do everything from track your exercise to finding recipes to simplifying your life. We tend to forget at how much we rely on them across our devices.
As I look across my devices, there are a lot of apps that I use for both my professional and personal life. However since this is a work-related blog, I decided to focus on a handful of apps that I use regularly that help me on a daily basis in the office.

Cost: $49.95
Get it: Desktop App
This app is perfect for laptops, particularly those used for business purposes. SnagIt is a screenshot program that can capture images, video and audio. It can often be used to help simplify emails between coworkers, because as they say, “A picture’s worth a thousand words.” Worth even more words is the ability to markup any picture on SnagIt before sending it off to someone else, showing them exactly what it is that you are looking for or having an issue with.

Cost: $6.24-$12.95 subscription per month, Free mobile app
Get it: iOS, Android
Headspace describes itself as “a gym membership for the mind.” To achieve this, it uses meditation and relaxation techniques to help energize your mind. The app promises to make you stress less and focus more, and has the science to back up its claims. For me, the app helps recharge my batteries and leads me to more productive days. It’s especially helpful on those long and stressful days that we all face once and a while. The app is something that is also helpful when you need a recharge outside of the office.


Cost: Free
Get it: iOS, Android
Want to learn a language? Is time something that you have little of? If so, Duolingo is the app for you. Available on both desktop and mobile, the app allows you to conquer the daunting task of learning an entirely new language. Surprisingly, the app also makes this extremely manageable, allowing you to set specific goals that are actually realistic, including the option to set the goal to as little as 10 minutes per day. For those with busy schedules who may never have believed they had the time available to learn a new language, Duolingo proves that it actually is possible.

Cost: Free
Get: iOS, Android
OneNote is an app designed around note-taking. It allows you to easily keep all of your notes in one place and organize them as you please, which can be perfect for the busy worker traveling from meeting to meeting. It also allows you to share your notes with other people that have the app, allowing you to easily help out a coworker who may have missed a meeting due to illness or some other reason. This is also helpful for people working globally or with coworkers who work remotely.


Cost: $129.95-$235.85 (Physical Pen), Free (Associated App)
Get: iOS, Android
Technically this isn’t an app, but it is enabled by an app, so we’ll make the exception. LiveScribe is a “Smart Pen” that captures handwritten notes in digital format. Rather than just saving the notes as is, LiveScribe can digitally display how the notes were written in real time, and demonstrate any changes that may have taken place. It also allows the person using it to record audio, which will sync with the notes being written and can be used to explain them in real time.
We launched the Livescribe 3 smartpen Black Edition yesterday during Day 1 of #CES2016. Much intrigue is in the air! pic.twitter.com/4mpemw3RYV
— Livescribe (@livescribe) January 7, 2016

When you mix the real time changes and audio aspects, you can virtually bring someone who may not have been in the meeting into the meeting. This is especially important when you work globally and may have meetings that fall out of the workday with coworkers. It also helps avoid things getting lost in translation to a text response/recap.

Cost: Free (Basic version), $10.99-$14.99 (Premium Version)
Get it: iOS, Android
Password management is incredibly important but also can be quite a pain. It’s important to have complicated, not easily guessable passwords to properly protect your private data, but with the number of different passwords you need, it can be hard to keep track of all of them. Luckily, this app allows you to store the passwords you use for a variety of sites, all protected by one main password (make sure it’s a good one!). This way, your passwords can be as complex as possible, and you don’t need to worry about forgetting them.

