ICS cybersecurity: A view from the field
Over the past few years, even mass media have been writing about industrial control systems (ICS) cybersecurity incidents with increasing frequency. Unfortunately, the problem lies not only in targeted attacks, such as BlackEnergy or Operation Ghoul, aimed at the industrial sector, but also in more common cyberthreats that do not target specific victims. The latest example is WannaCry ransomware, which was not explicitly designed to target industrial control systems yet managed to infiltrate a number of ICS networks and in some instances, led to the downtime of industrial processes.
But how are those in charge of ICS security responding to the threats? How do those cybersecurity practitioners perceive the risks, and do they have the skills to address them? How do perception and reality align? We observed a certain gap between the perception of ICS incidents inside industrial companies and the reality. That is why we, with the help of Business Advantage, conducted a global survey of 359 industrial cybersecurity practitioners. Here is what we found.
Although the research shows that practitioners are aware of threats, their perceptions and responses to them indicate a need for better understanding of the nature of the threats and how to fight them. Current industrial cybersecurity strategies are largely inconsistent, with organizations putting solutions in place but not following up with strong processes, guidance, and properly implemented software. 
Kaspersky Lab recommends that industrial organizations invest in their people by raising awareness of the issues and educating users to understand the threats and behaviors that put the business at risk. The skills gap can be addressed by outsourcing industrial cybersecurity-specific management to specialized external teams that understand the unique requirements of the sector. 
Additionally, cybersecurity solutions developed specifically for the sector provide far more effective protection than generic solutions, which, as we’ve seen, leave at least 50% of organizations exposed to breaches.
For our complete report on the survey, please fill out this form.


I agree to provide my contact information to Kaspersky Lab (first name, last name, email address, phone, country, postal code) to be contacted by Kaspersky Lab sales representatives by phone for a personalized offer that could be based, in particular, on geography and company size information provided; to receive information via email about Kaspersky Lab products and services including promotional offers, product updates and premium assets like white papers, webcasts, videos, events etc.; to participate in surveys to vocalize opinion on various aspects of Kaspersky Lab business, in particular, about products, technical support etc.. I understand that I can withdraw this consent at any time via unsubscribe link from email or via Privacy Policy
MktoForms2.loadForm("//app-sj06.marketo.com", "802-IJN-240", 12422);
