Tip of the week: Manage Kaspersky Lab solutions remotely
Today we are going to talk about My Kaspersky. This Web portal lets users manage our security solutions on all of their devices remotely.
A brief historical note: My Kaspersky grew out of the Personal Account feature, a service that offered limited options such as submitting and tracking a tech support ticket. My Kaspersky also supports ticketing, but it has many other useful options, including: 
Here is a more detailed explanation of how to use all of these features. 
To start using My Kaspersky, sign up or log in. You can do so on any device, even if it has no antivirus installed. Then, connect the device you want to manage to your My Kaspersky account. 
When connected you can do the following: 
Click here for more information on how to manage Kaspersky Internet Security 2017 remotely. 
This feature works with Android devices. If you have Kaspersky Internet Security for Android installed on your smartphone or tablet, you can lock it in a moment with a single command sent from My Kaspersky.
The website can be also used to do the following: 
Click here to read more about remote management of lost devices. 
On My Kaspersky, you can securely store and use passwords for sites, apps, text notes, and banking card data — all in one place. This information is encrypted so that only you can use it. 
To access this data, you will need one password — just one, a master-password. You can also use Kaspersky Password Manager to do the same. But this is important: If you forget the master-password you won’t be able to restore it. 
You can use My Kaspersky to pinpoint the current location of your child’s mobile device. This feature requires Kaspersky Safe Kids to be installed on their smartphone. This app works on Windows, Android, iOS, and macOS.
You can use My Kaspersky to:
You can find more about how My Kaspersky helps protect children in our Knowledge Base. 
Open the Licenses tab on My Kaspersky to add a product activation code. Here you can also do the following: 
