Why you should attend the online cybersecurity summit
The days are long gone when a company’s main cybersecurity concern was malware. Nowadays, cybercriminals look at different ways not only to penetrate a company, but also to provide new methods to make those with the titles of CISO, CIO, or CTO lie awake at night.
Recent attacks, such as the one on Equifax, have shown that delays in patching leave an enterprise vulnerable to serious data theft. In other incidents, companies have seen their supply chain disrupted when malefactors infiltrated the network. If you mix these threats with the continual evolution of complexity of spear-phishing and ransomware attacks, you can see why these executives are getting night sweats.
The question now becomes: What can I do to keep my business ahead of the curve?
A quick answer is education, but when you are in the C-suite, it is tough to carve out time to head to conferences around the world. Knowing that time is money and executive time is quite valuable, we decided to host our first-ever Kaspersky CyberSecurity Summit online, on September 21, 2017.
During this event, we will take attendees through the full scenario of the threat landscape, move on to attack detection, and then end with a panel that discusses their detection and prevention process. The event is 100% free, and for those short on time, it will be available to watch on demand at a later date.
Sound interesting?
Sign up here.
The full agenda for Thursday, September 21:
All times are BST (GMT+1)
14:00–14:05    Welcome — Eugene Kaspersky, CEO, Kaspersky Lab
Introduction by summit moderator, Geoff White, television news journalist and investigative reporter
14:05–14:30: Tales from the front line of threat-hunting: The top attacks targeting enterprise in 2017 — Juan Andres Guerrero-Saade, principal security researcher, Global Research and Analysis Team, Kaspersky Lab
14:30–14:45:   Not risk-free but risk-ready: Managing threats with confidence — Alessio Aceti, head of Enterprise Business Division, Kaspersky Lab
