Ask Eugene Kaspersky Anything
You might know that Kaspersky Lab turns 20 this year. For a cybersecurity company, 20 years is not young. We’ve grown from several programmers sitting in a tiny office into one of the world’s leading infosec companies, with offices all over the world. Once we protected only home users’ computers; now we do much more, from hunting down nefarious threat actors to securing the data of international businesses.
The company began with Eugene Kaspersky’s dream of saving the world. Well, the world is not yet saved, so there’s no time for him to rest on his laurels; he continues to lead the company and fight cybercrime.
Eugene is always on the move, traveling the world to meet with dignitaries and business partners and to speak at events on the importance of cybersecurity and protecting our critical infrastructures from hackers. If you follow his Nota Bene blog or his Instagram account, you can see how rigorous the global executive’s travel schedule is.
Our communications team gets countless requests from customers, media, and cybersecurity wonks to speak with Eugene and to hear what he has to say. Despite best efforts, the day has only 24 hours and we can’t accommodate every request, which means that sometimes your questions go unanswered.
That changes later this week.

You see, for two hours this Thursday, Eugene Kaspersky will hop onto Reddit to host his first ever Ask Me Anything (AMA). If you are familiar with the AMA format, you know you can ask the participant literally any question. If you are unfamiliar with it, click here to read last year’s AMA with members of GReAT (Kaspersky Lab’s Global Research and Analysis Team). As you can see, the guys really answered a lot of questions ranging from silly stuff to serious threat research.

If you are interested in participating in this AMA, be sure to follow our social media accounts or the hashtag #EKAMA on Twitter. The AMA will happen on Thursday, May 11, 2017, at 9:00 AM EDT (4:00 PM Moscow time) on Reddit.
We will be posting a link to the chat as well as photo proof of Eugene opening up the AMA on our social accounts. So be sure to follow along.
Until then, think about what you want to ask Eugene. This really can be anything from his wildest travel destination or favorite movie to the scariest APT or what he really thinks about the IoT — or which cocktail he likes best.
