What is #TheSAS
When I joined Kaspersky Lab a few years back, one thing I kept hearing from my colleagues was, “wait until you see the SAS,” and “get ready to see some amazing research at the SAS.”
Being a curious person, I did some research and saw that, yep, this is kind of a big deal. To take a small step back, the Kaspersky Security Analyst Summit (the SAS for short) is entering its tenth year and is an exclusive event for some of the brightest minds in the cybersecurity industry. It’s attended by competitors, partners, and some of the cooler people I have met in the industry.
That in itself is pretty cool, but the conference is also where members of Kaspersky Lab’s Global Research and Analysis Team showcase some of their killer research. In the past, the conference has seen announcements of research on some seriously nefarious actors including the Sony hackers, the $1 billion Carbanak cyberheist, Moonlight Maze, the Equation Group, and more.
In covering the event for the past two years, I can see why many in the industry consider the SAS a can’t-miss event. It not only mixes great research and people, but also goes to places that other conferences don’t. Now, I have nothing against San Francisco or Las Vegas, but where’s the adventure in going there? (Take a look here and here for some recent event shots.)

The 2018 edition of the SAS will take place in Cancún, Mexico, March 7–11. There will be technical training sessions before the event that cover Yara, analyzing APTs, and hardware hacking. If you are interested in learning more, please visit our training registration page.

The conference agenda is still in the planning phases, so if you have some killer research, please submit your abstract to: sasCFP@kaspersky.com — the deadline for submissions is November 15, so act fast. If you are interested in attending, fill out an information request on the SAS website.
Want to speak @kasperskysas? Submit your proposal today: sasCFP@kaspersky.com #TheSAS2018
You don’t have to take my word for it — check out the videos below to see the quality of knowledge dropped at the conference.




