KRACK: Your Wi-Fi is no longer secure
Most vulnerabilities go unnoticed by the majority of the world’s population even if they affect several million people. But this news, published today, is probably even bigger than the recently disclosed Yahoo breach and affects several billion people all over the world: Researchers have found a bunch of vulnerabilities that make all Wi-Fi networks insecure.
A paper published today describes how virtually any Wi-Fi network that relies on WPA or WPA2 encryption can be compromised. And with WPA being the standard for modern Wi-Fi, that means pretty much every Wi-Fi network in the world is vulnerable.
The research is quite complicated, so we won’t go through it in detail and will just briefly highlight the main findings.
Researchers have found out that devices based on Android, iOS, Linux, macOS, Windows, and some other operating systems are vulnerable to some variation of this attack, and that means almost any device can be compromised. They called this type of attack a key reinstallation attack, or KRACK for short.
In particular, they describe how an attack on Android 6 devices works. To execute it, the attacker has to set up a Wi-Fi network with the same name (SSID) as that of an existing network and target a specific user. When the attacker detects that the user is about to connect to the original network, they can send special packets that make the device switch to another channel and connect to the fake network with the same name.
After that, using a flaw in the implementation of the encryption protocols they can change the encryption key the user was using to a string of zeroes and thus access all of the information that the user uploads or downloads.
One may argue that there’s another layer of security — the encrypted connection to a site, e.g., SSL or HTTPS. However, a simple utility called SSLstrip set up on the fake access point is enough to force the browser to communicate with unencrypted, HTTP versions of websites instead of encrypted, HTTPS versions, in cases where encryption is not correctly implemented on a site (and that is true for quite a lot of websites, including some very big ones).
So, by using this utility in their fake network, the attacker can access the users’ logins and passwords in plain text, which basically means stealing them.



