The Cost of Cryptomalware: SMBs at Gunpoint
 Download PDF
In 2015 and early 2016, Kaspersky Lab registered a large number of cyber incidents involving ransomware, many of which have drawn a wide public response. Compared to the period of 2014-2015, the number of ransomware-based attacks on the corporate sector increased sixfold. Kaspersky Lab experts expect that in frequency of use, this type of malware could even surpass banking Trojans. 
In order to find out more about the challenges and threats businesses are encountering, Kaspersky Lab, together with B2B International, has conducted a study entitled Corporate IT Security Risks Survey 2016. We asked more than 3,000 representatives of small and medium-sized companies how they manage to cope with cryptomalware in the constantly changing landscape of cyber threats.
Here’s what we have found.
42% of VSB and 49% of SMB representatives say they consider cryptomalware to be one of the most serious threats that their organization could face. This type of ransomware has entered the Top three digital threats which cause serious concern for companies worldwide. 
This perception meets the worrying reality. Survey findings reveal that 20 % of companies worldwide have been subjected to IT security incidents as a result of a cryptomalware-based attack. For smaller companies, ransomware ranks second in the list of threats, most often resulting in the loss of large amounts of data.
What are the reasons behind efficiency of cryptomalware-based attacks? Once a malicious program penetrates the system, the user has almost no chance to get rid of it without losing valuable data. On average, attackers demand $300 for the decryption of files. However, the consequences caused by cryptomalware infection are not limited to one-off payments and include losses caused by business continuity disruption. According to the Corporate IT Security Risks Survey 2016, the average amount of damage caused by one cryptomalware attack may cost small and medium businesses up to $99,000.
The total amount of damage caused by cryptomalware can be divided into two parts: the ransom and the related losses. 
For smaller companies, even a short-term lack of access to corporate data could cause significant losses or completely suspend their activity. If the organization has not taken appropriate measures to ensure the safety of its critical information, purchasing a decryption key may be the only way to resume its operations. Despite the fact that cybercriminals do not guarantee the return of corporate data, 34% of entrepreneurs admitted paying extortionists. The IT Security Risks Survey 2016 research shows that one out of five companies has failed to get back its data after paying a ransom.
The amount of related damage is, to a large extent, affected by shortcomings in the preventive work of the IT staff (poorly administered systems, outdated or missing backups, unreliable passwords, irregularly updated software, etc.). According to the IT Security Risks Survey 2016 research, about 67% of SMB representatives have reported complete or partial loss of corporate data due to cryptomalware.
For many small and medium businesses, the lack of resources and internal expertise in the field of information security is one of the most serious problems. According to the survey, over 44% of entrepreneurs admitted their knowledge about IT threats left much to be desired. About 43% of respondents stated they needed more effective protection, while more than half of the organizations surveyed reported the need for experts not only in IT but in information security.
Cryptomalware is distributed via two main ways: 
SMBs can adopt several tactics to deal with the threat of fast-paced cryptomalware. 
In most cases, security solutions block ransomware with no extra help. Nevertheless, to deploy and configure the security products, companies need IT specialists with a solid knowledge and skills. The IT security department is the last line of defense in protecting the corporate network.
