Kaspersky Private Security Network: Securing with no questions asked
Kaspersky Lab introduces a new solution called Kaspersky Private Security Network.
While the words “private security” instantly brings an image of square tough guys in black suits and dark glasses – or some noir era private eye – it’s a special variant of Kaspersky Security Network, a reputable cloud solution by Kaspersky Lab… with a twist.
“Nah, sir, they just regularly wheel in their entire bunch of files on the baddies; no questions asked. Cozy, ain’t it?”
Kaspersky Security Network
KSN is a cloud service that was developed to provide an additional layer of security for all Kaspersky Lab’s solutions. KSN is a sort of early warning system that delivers Kaspersky Lab’s security intelligence to every partner or customer via the Internet, ensuring the fastest reaction times.
Kaspersky Private Security Network: Securing  with no questions asked #enterprisesec
Gathering and processing depersonalized cybersecurity-related data from millions of voluntary participants around the world, it is capable of detecting the newly emerging threats and reporting them to all clients (i.e. updating the local threats databases) in a matter of minutes.
The distributed nature of KSN and the cloud’s high processing power helps to quickly and more accurately analyze new specimens of malicious programs or websites detected on client devices. When security applications encounter an unknown threat, they contact remote servers for a resolution, and receive an instantaneous answer.
The information that is processed is received from customers who have agreed to
participate in KSN – this feature can be opted out of or limited either at or after the installation of a Kaspersky Lab security solution.
Currently KSN helps to protect over 80,000,000 users each year.
More data is available in this whitepaper.
Private? What’s the difference?
What does “private” mean here? Quite simply: There’s just one way the data is flowing.
Some companies have extremely tough and prohibitive information security policies: For instance, no outgoing data feeding to third-party servers. At all. Effectively, this prevents the company from using Kaspersky Security Network as its architecture suggests sending statistical data from the local workstations to the remote cloud.
So enter here, Kaspersky Private Security Network. The word “private” means that essentially the “cloud” – i.e. server with all stats available to/from KSN – is installed right within the enterprise infrastructure. It is synchronized with the “core” cloud regulargly, so the data on cyberthreats is constantly up-to-date. But there is no data outgoing beyond this local “cloud”, as the enterprise security solutions only request references from the box, installed within the enterprise network.
With Kaspersky Private Security Network no data flows outwards. #enterprisesec
“A private security cloud allows the client to take advantage of the opportunities provided by the distributed Kaspersky Security Network within its IT infrastructure, in full compliance with the requirements and specific needs of enterprises,” says Nikita Shvetsov, Chief Technology Officer at Kaspersky Lab.
