Your PC’s gone slow? Scan it for viruses!
If your device slows down or hangs up, you are not alone. Sometimes apps refuse to open or a browser will fail to respond at a crucial time. When irritated users get fed up with this behavior, many of them are ready to throw away their poor device, and sometimes they even want to do it as brutally as possible.
While it might seem like a good idea at the time, breaking the device is never a good solution, you will regret it.

Kaspersky Lab can offer you a significantly better one. We’ve created a number of special tools both for Windows devices such as PCs and laptops, and for Android smartphones and tablets. And they are completely free!

Kaspersky Lab’s tools can be used to check if your device is infected with malware or a virus. They will also warn you if your OS and software suffer from vulnerabilities and provide you with recommendations on how to improve your protection — and all of these literally in one click.
If you want to check and clean up your Windows device, click => Kaspersky Virus Removal Tool.
If the Kaspersky Virus Removal Tool detects infected files, it will display them in a separate window and then wait for the user to choose what to do with them — try to cure, delete or quarantine. You can apply these actions to all files at once or to each of them separately.
If Kaspersky Virus Removal Tool didn’t help you the way you expected it to, you can turn to another free tool, TDSSkiller, which is created for removing the majority of rootkits from your PC. Rootkit is a type of malware that tries to access system functions and it is usually very good at hiding itself from the system monitoring.
TDSSkiller detects suspicious files and offers to quarantine them for further research. If the analysis confirms that the files are infected, the tool offers to cure them or to delete them forever.
If you want to scan your Android phone, you can install Kaspersky Threat Scan. This tool checks if your device is safe from the most widespread vulnerabilities.
