Kaspersky Lab extends sponsorship contract with the Scuderia Ferrari
Kaspersky Lab is pleased to announce the continuation of its sponsorship contract with the Scuderia Ferrari Formula One racing team. The new five-year contract will be valid from 2017 until 2021.
The partnership itself began in 2010, with Kaspersky Lab’s branding appearing upon the Ferrari’s race cars bodies; Kaspersky Lab has become the sponsor of Scuderia Ferrari team.
The companies’ partnership moved on to the next level in 2013 when Ferrari chose Kaspersky Lab as the vendor of endpoint security solution for its vast infrastructure.
Together with the Ferrari ICT department, Kaspersky Lab had tailored an endpoint solution that met Ferrari’s specific needs. This solution had been developed after six months of rigorous compliance testing and benchmarking against other IT Security providers. The Kaspersky endpoint solution was installed on around 4,000 computers in 2013, with further installation rolled out over the next year to further additional devices to cover Ferrari’s entire application landscape.
Ferrari’s facilities are among the most sophisticated in the world. High levels of automation combine with precision techniques, test data and more than 2,000 employees form a complex, high-value infrastructure. Its security requirements are unique; Ferrari required the security partner that would be capable of integrating with this ecosystem to deliver cutting-edge protection without impacting system performance.
Last year, Konstantin Goncharov published his impressions about visiting the Ferrari plant in Maranello. It has a very tight “common” security: no cameras, no personal laptops. When you make the best racing cars in the world, you’d better keep your secrets away from the competition.
Prevention of data leaks of all kinds is paramount: neither technical, nor “social” data is supposed get out. Unauthorized parties should not be able to access the company’s infrastructure and data.
Kaspersky Lab’s solution is used by Ferrari in order to block all types of cyberthreats and attempts to invade the networks, while leaving the performance of the systems unaffected.
Currently, from its iconic Maranello factory complex, all the way to the chequered flag, Ferrari’s IT systems are protected by Kaspersky Lab’s security solutions. The commercial agreement signed in April 2013 is effective through 2018.
