Advanced cyberthreats, demystified
A few years from now someone will start writing the history of advanced, highly sophisticated cyberthreats. This person will obviously start with Stuxnet, and go through the findings of campaigns like The Equation, Red October, Regin or Dark Hotel. These are the names every security researcher knows, as they significantly impact our understanding of cyberthreat evolution. But they are not the ones that cause the most damage. Much simpler, unsophisticated but still dangerous targeted attacks are the ones businesses should fear the most.
Advanced cyberthreats, demystified #targetedattacks
Let me be clear, it’s not that high-profile threats are not dangerous. The major goals of people behind them are espionage and sabotage, and their victims, unfortunately, do feel the impact. The security community’s attention is biased towards the complicated cases, but this sometimes leads to false assumptions on the side of businesses. For example:
Wrong, because even smaller businesses can be used as a vulnerable point to reach a larger and more protected company.
Again, this is not true, detecting even the most sophisticated cybercriminal campaign is possible, and the security industry is definitely showing some progress here.
This bias shifts the attention of corporate IT professionals from a simple fact: advanced threats are not the only ones that target them. Based on our intelligence, we can roughly divide all threats into three categories: known threats, unknown threats and targeted attacks/advanced threats.
So what should businesses do? The answer is simple. We all agree that companies need experts and technology to secure their perimeter (don’t forget that the other 99% of typical threats is still there). Likewise, they need intelligence and technology to identify and remediate attacks inside the perimeter, should they happen. The worst case scenario is when you learn about a compromise of your data from a newspaper, and not your CISO.
There are many approaches to creating a technology to detect targeted attacks. The most effective are based on the knowledge of the normal behavior of your company’s network. Which websites and services do your employees visit? At what frequency? What is the typical time they do that? How often do you exchange data with your partners and clients? Knowing these patterns, threat detection solutions are able to spot irregular behavior and alert IT personnel. Is it okay if a laptop connects at 3am to an unusual server in a distant country? Why is that machine sending gigabytes of data to a previously unknown location? In fact, this is where advanced threats and ‘unsophisticated’ targeted attacks start showing similar behavior. No matter how brilliant, these cyberweapons have to communicate to their creators, propagate within the infrastructure and send data. That’s when an effective and highly flexible algorithm can be capable of spotting them.
Cyberweapons have to propagate within the infrastructure and send data. #targetedattacks
