Rental Wi-Fi? Think Twice
By now, you are no doubt familiar with short-term rental sites — AirBnB, Homeaway, and the like. Many of you reading this have used them, whether as guest or as host. 
The business model of these sites has truly disrupted the travel industry and made travel more comfortable and accommodating for groups of friends and families. Having stayed in a few of these properties, I have always found it interesting how easy some of the homeowners make access to their personal items, including their Wi-Fi.

So, when I saw a panel listed at Black Hat entitled AirBnBeware: Short Term Rentals, Long Term Pwnage, I had to pop in for a listen. The speaker, Jeremy Galloway, opened by noting that his talk was inspired by a trip with friends during which he wanted to mess with their web browsing by hacking into the router. He figured it would take a few hours, but thanks to the homeowner of the bed-and-breakfast where they were staying, he was able to do it much quicker. The router was out in plain sight, so Galloway could plug his computer directly into it. 
Why does this matter? More than 60 millions of guests stay in AirBnB locations over the course of a year, and the company boasts more than 2 million locations around the globe. Even without adding in numbers from other short-term-rental sites, that is a lot of people coming and going! That kind of volume means risk exposure could be quite large — even for people who stay just once in just one of these properties.

The talk itself was engaging and entertaining, but it did highlight a real problem for many people around the globe. We talk all the time about why you should avoid free Wi-Fi or be extremely careful while using it and how you should secure your home network — because we want you to be safe in your daily life. However, we also want you to be safe when traveling, and it’s important to know that when you are using someone else’s Wi-Fi, you never know who has been or is still lurking on there.
The session offered some tips that we summarize below for both renters and homeowners.
 
