Six simple cybersecurity rules for all ages
Nowadays parents are getting more and more concerned about what you do on the Internet. They know that there are lots of creepy weirdos and malicious viruses on the Internet; they fear for your naivety, innocence and the potential of severe cyberbullying. Of course, sometimes they go overboard but you still need to deal with it.
Do you have a smothering mother or father who wants to know what’s going on in your life both online and off? Sorry, but it’s just the way things are. If you want more freedom behave like any normal adult would do: show your parents that you can make deliberate decisions.
You’ll benefit from it as well. Keeping your gaming and social accounts secured is a tangible bonus, isn’t it? As we’ve already written, cybercriminals would readily take over your Facebook page, infect your smartphone with a virus, or steal your gaming account.
Six simple cyber #security rules for all ages #privacy #protection
These criminals don’t really care whom they steal from — it could be you or your Grandpa Joe — but you’ve probably got more in-game currency than your grandfather. That’s why you need to know how to secure your PC from Trojans and viruses. Some of them were created to spy on you and gather your passwords and other valuable data.

Talking of passwords, they are a weak link for the majority of home users. People choose unreliable combination of symbols like ‘12345’ or ‘qwerty’, store them in .doc files on a hard drive and share them with friends in online chats… Should we tell you that this sort of naivety is not the best way to behave on the Internet?

Do you tell strangers on the street where you go, what you eat for breakfast or your friends’ addresses? Probably, not. On the Internet you should follow the same rules. If you do not set up privacy settings on your social page properly, one can easily single out all these facts by thoroughly examining your accounts on Facebook and Instagram. So keep secrets!

Cyber criminals know how to make money out of hacking your smartphone. Actually, they are very good at it. Stealing from your account by making paid calls or subscribing you to unnecessary SMS-services — these are just the most obvious technique to gain easy money. For this reason your phone needs to be protected just as thoroughly as your PC is.

Cyberbullying is another scourge of the Internet. People are cruel and teens are dreadful sometimes. Seeking justice you can get stuck in endless online fights that bring nothing but harm. Don’t waste your time and/or efforts on these people — instead focus your time and energy on things that really matter to you. When facing a problem that is going out of control think of these tips.

And remember that people are great liars. Internet anonymity only fosters this touch of nature. That’s why don’t believe those cool girls and boys with ‘unbeatable’ social pages who pretend to live ideal life — quite possible, they don’t. We all have our own biases, make mistake, then grin and bear it. Sometimes we lie even about dribs and drabs. So not everything on the Internet is what it seems.

