WISeID Kaspersky Lab Security: augmenting security
Kaspersky Lab announced WISeID Kaspersky Lab Security, a special edition of a mobile app jointly developed with WISeKey, a Swiss based cyber-security company. The new special edition integrates the best technologies from both cyber-security companies to offer the safer and more reliable mobile communications and transactions.
Threats
Mobile threats have become an increasingly hot topic in recent years. They grow in numbers and in sophistication; once a mere nuisance, it’s a major problem now: money-stealing Trojans, capable of overlaying with their phishing screens apps of dozens of banks and payment systems, highly resilient and stealthy cross-platform malware, mobile implants, illicit Bitcoin mining, etc.
WISeID Kaspersky Lab Security: augmenting mobile #security
Mobile operating systems provide app developers with significant security features, but hackers have still been able to exploit the massive installed base of Android and iOS devices, using many different infection vectors to place malware.
While this seems to be consumer-level threats, in fact in many cases it is businesses that are the real victims. Especially in a case of banking Trojans – we covered that topic just yesterday.
Safety tools
The WISeID cyber-resilience edition is about protecting personal data. It locks account usernames and passwords, along with credit card numbers and access PINs into a secure personal data organizer, creating accountable identities for online activity while the data itself remains protected in a secure cloud vault.
Among other things, WISeID Kaspersky Lab Security generates hard-to-crack passwords, and safely synchronizes data between computers and devices on multiple platforms using secure cloud storage. The vault can be unlocked only with the user’s Master Password and/or defined pattern, with additional protection provided through facial recognition authentication. WISeID can be accessed online through a single click.
WISeID is armed with Kaspersky Mobile Security SDK to secure mobile transactions. #security
WISeID is also armed with Kaspersky Mobile Security SDK – a robust and proven solution for protecting mobile phones against security threats. It augments existing mobile applications and allows organizations to secure mobile transactions on devices running the most popular mobile operating systems.
The SDK’s inclusion in the app delivers advanced security features like web & network protection, device protection and risk detection to smartphones, offering users, both individual and corporate, an effective layer of self-defense, which is more and more recognized as an absolute necessity.
