How secure is your storage, does this keep you up at night?
We all know that data is core, critical, sensitive, and valuable to any and all business as well as everyone personally. We also know that data continues to grow exponentially and is varied in type. Now add the fast adoption rate of mobile phones, tablets, and gaming consoles, along with traditional computers and PCs, and there is now an ever increasing rate of  data breeches and vulnerability. Users also want and expect access to data 24/7, with no barriers or lag times.
These environments may house any amount of sensitive data assets such as personnel information, including social security numbers and human resource related records, customer payment and account information, a patient’s medical records, and a company’s intellectual property information. This sensitive information can be structured (held within a database) or it can be unstructured (residing in Word documents, PDFs, image files, spreadsheets, etc.). That is why this data can be a prime target and the threat of viruses and other lethal malware remains a constant concern for many IT organizations.
How secure is your #storage, does this keep you up at night?
It is unsettling how these threats can spread throughout an organization at terrifying speeds capitalizing on the interoperability of modern networks. In a constantly growing threat landscape, it only takes a single infected file unknowingly placed into the storage environment to expose every node on the network to immediate risk.
In implementing a cost effective, efficient infrastructure and datacenter, companies implement an environment where users have shared access to systems and storage. This adds an additional challenge for IT, as most organizations will have multiple departments or groups accessing the shared storage.  These departments may have different policies, risks, and usage requirements. The users have varying access authorization, are geographically dispersed, and are on varying networks. As such, they are vulnerable to external attacks, malicious insiders, compromised systems, and lax policies.
As business continue to roll out data storages across their IT estate, their corporate infrastructure and data centers have a wide range of heterogeneous hardware of servers and storage. That is why it is critical to ensure that the data is secure and that both the storage infrastructure and the security solution it depends upon are reliable and efficient.
By implementing a security solution designed specifically to protect storage devices and knowing that the security solution and the storage platform have been tested, certified, and proven to work well together, companies can protect their customers and themselves from threats.
NAS without anti-malware #protection are a direct threat to the security of the corporate IT infrastructure #enterprisesec
Dell and Kaspersky Lab are addressing this threat by certifying that the Dell™ Fluid File System (FluidFS) on the FS8600 platform and Kaspersky Security for Storage work efficiently and effectively together.  Kaspersky Security for Storage provides high-performance, scalable protection for valuable and sensitive corporate data.  Dell FluidFS storage offerings are open-standards-based, scale-out network-attached storage (NAS) solutions that meet the capacity, performance, reliability, flexibility and scalability requirements of modern data centers. Since the FluidFS on FS8600 provides integrated antivirus functionality that allows administrators to manage behavior from the Enterprise Manager interface such as file or directory paths to exclude from scanning or even exclude files by size, this can also be done from the Kaspersky Security for Storage console.
Network data storage architectures without anti-malware protection are a direct threat to the security of the corporate IT infrastructure, customer’s data and a company’s reputation. By implementing Kaspersky Security for Storage with Dell FluidFS storage platform as a complete solution, it will help network administrators to secure the corporate network against harmful malware and malicious virus code from spreading via the NAS.
