Passions according to Ashley Madison: users data finally leaked
Ashley Madison’s unplanned affair with a group of hackers did not succeed. On August 18, 2015 the hackers posted nearly 10-gigabytes of stolen data online. Now anyone can download the records on the darknet, including email addresses, credit card transactions and even profiles of 32 million registered Ashley Madison’s users.
To recap events: The dating site for cheaters had been hacked in July. Attackers blamed the website for consumer fraud and scam and demanded the Ashley Madison’s parent company Avid Life Media to take down their websites. As team at ALM refused to do that, attackers (calling themselves the Impact Team) refused the privacy for ALM’s clients.
We have explained the fraud, deceit, and stupidity of ALM and their members. Now everyone gets to see their data. Keep in mind the site is a scam with thousands of fake female profiles. See Ashley Madison fake profile lawsuit; 90-95% of actual users are male. Chances are your man signed up on the world’s biggest affair site, but never had one. He just tried to. If that distinction matters.
Too bad for those men, they’re cheating dirtbags and deserve no such discretion. Too bad for ALM, you promised secrecy but didn’t deliver.…

As you can see, among other interesting things, hackers claim that the ratio of men to women on the site was roughly 6 to 1. It begs the question: Does this mean that many users of the site had never consummated an affair?
The leaked data already intrigue everybody from journalists and activists to ordinary folk. For example, inquisitorial users delved into the data and discovered several curious emails. It turned out that the desire to have fun is not alien for governmental employees as well. Somebody has even discovered on the Tony Blair’s email in the list. But as ALM does not verify user emails, so many of these addresses may be fake.
https://twitter.com/zerohedge/status/633753110490419204/
Some discoveries can lead to serious consequences — as much as a year of confinement. As the Washington Post noted, adultery is a crime in the military, and you’ll find thousands of Ashley Madison users with email addresses on the .mil domain. And of course, personal consequences could be devastating.
Passions according to Ashley Madison: users #data finally leaked
Ashley Madison reacted furiously: This event is not an act of hacktivism, it is an act of criminality. It is an illegal action against the individual members of AshleyMadison.com, as well as any freethinking people who choose to engage in fully lawful online activities.
