First among peers: Kaspersky Small Office Security beats competitors
AV-TEST has evaluated 11 small business security solutions to find out which provides the most effective security for Windows 10. We’re pleased to report that, according to the test results, Kaspersky Small Office Security took first place. The Kaspersky Lab solution excelled against the competition, gaining maximum scores in all three categories: protection, performance, and usability.
Windows 10 is still making its way towards general adoption, but it has already overtook Windows 8.1 with 16.53% (as of March 2016). That’s more than enough to attract attention from cybercrooks; AV-TEST used 140 samples of 0-day malware and 14,658 widespread samples during the protection rate tests.
Microsoft does a great job making its systems secure, but there are many other issues that end-users and businesses may face.
First among the peers: Kaspersky Small Office Security beats competitors #tests, #Windows10
AV-TEST examined 11 different Windows 10 compatible corporate solutions, among which was Kaspersky Small Office Security. The tests covered three categories, with AV-TEST specialists evaluating protection, speed, and usability.
The protection test took place in two stages. First, protection against 0-day malware attacks, inclusive of web and e-mail threats was tested. Secondly, the solutions were tested in their ability to detect widespread and prevalent malware discovered in the last 4 weeks by AV-TEST. To assess the performance of security solutions under Windows 10 the testers mimicked typical user behavior, launching popular websites, downloading and installing frequently-used applications, and copying of files both locally and in a network.
The usability assessment focused on the influence of the security solution on the usability of the Windows 10 system. Two different factors were considered: how much the user was distracted by warning messages about unknown programs or false positives (users strongly dislike “paranoid” serial warnings), and the false detection of safe programs as malicious software. Overall more than 1.3 million samples were used to examine the false detections rate.
Kaspersky Small Office Security came out ahead of all competitors: it was the only solution to achieve the maximum 6 points in every category for a total of 18 points overall.
This means that Kaspersky Small Office Security is currently the best Windows 10 compatible corporate solution on the market. As Maik Morgenstern, Chief Technology Officer (CTO) AV-TEST pointed out, “Even when the solution is installed using standard settings, it can satisfy the most demanding customer security requirements.”
Kaspersky Small Office Security made it ahead of all competitors in latest examination by #AV-TEST
Konstantin Voronkov, Kaspersky Lab Head of Endpoint Product Management, commented: “In this age of raising cybercrime Kaspersky Lab is strongly focused on delivering best of breed security solutions that have minimum impact on user productivity. We understand that ransomware, spyware and banking Trojans can not only paralyze businesses but also damage reputations. Kaspersky Lab delivers a truly multilayered protection, which prevents attacks at all stages: from multiple vectors of infection monitoring and prevention, to post-execution applications behavior control. Security is always a tradeoff with usability, and we are proud to be recognized as the best security solution, as well as the solution that has minimum impact on productivity, identifies the minimum level of false positives and maximizes the automatic mitigation and prevention of attacks.”
A detailed report on the tests is available at AV-TEST’s site.
