How the banking Trojans circumvent two-factor authentication
Two-factor authentication involving SMS has been used by most banks for quite some time. This is better than nothing, of course, but it’s not unbeatable: Researchers warned that it can be surmounted with relative ease about ten years ago, when this protective measure started gaining popularity.
Unfortunately, banking Trojan writers soon mastered the techniques to circumvent the one-time passwords delivered via SMS. Here’s how it works with modern banking Trojans:
It wouldn’t be much of an exaggeration to state that all of the modern mobile Trojans are capable of circumventing two-factor authentication using this scenario. Their authors don’t have much choice: almost every bank employs this protective measure, so the money can’t be stolen unless it is beaten.
There are more of these malicious applications than one may think. Just over the last month and a half our experts published three reports on various banking Trojans families, each one as bad as the other.
How the banking #Trojans circumvent the two-factor authentication #mobilesecurity
Asacub – a spying Trojan which learned to steal from banking apps too.
Acecard – a feature packed Trojan capable of overlaying apps from some 30 banks with its phishing screens. This trend has been caught by other malware as well: if initially banking Trojans would have targeted just one specific bank or payment system, now many of them are capable of hitting them in numbers.
Banloader – a cross-platform Brazilian Trojan capable of launching both on PC and mobile devices.
It is very naive to hope that two-factor authentication via SMS would protect against banking Trojans. For many years it’s been no match for them, and the situation isn’t going to improve. So the additional measures are necessary.
The problem is further aggravated with the fact that Trojans steal money via end-users’ devices, but it is banks that are the actual victims since they later have to investigate every incident, reimburse the losses, and restore their damaged reputation.
It is banks who are actual victims of Trojans, not users #mobilesecurity
Yes, most of the Trojans can be stopped with  anti-malware solutions, but it’s an unrealistic task to persuade thousands of users to install such solutions. Banks have a good reason to take their clients protection into their own hands –  for instance, using Kaspersky Fraud Prevention suite.
Its SDK arms the bank’s own mobile app with technologies capable of detecting the Trojans’ presence and successfully prevents criminals from accessing the bank account.
