Preliminary results of the internal investigation into alleged incidents reported by US media (updated with new findings)


— What was this internal investigation about?
— In October 2017, several U.S. media outlets described an incident involving Kaspersky Security Network and NSA classified data allegedly exfiltrated in 2015. We decided to double-check everything.
— Did you find any information about such an incident?
— No, we didn’t find anything about a 2015 incident. However, there was an incident in 2014 that resembled what was recently described in media reports.
— What happened, exactly?
— Our product detected known Equation malware on a user’s system. Later, on the same system, it also detected a non-Equation backdoor originating from a pirated copy of Microsoft Office, and a 7-Zip archive containing samples of previously unknown malware. After it detected them, our product sent the archive to our antivirus researchers for analysis. As it turned out, the archive contained malware source code that appeared to be related to the Equation Group, as well as several Word documents bearing classification markings.
— What was the backdoor?
— It was the Mokes backdoor, also known as “Smoke Bot” or “Smoke Loader.” The interesting thing about this malware is that it was available for purchase on Russian underground forums in 2011. Also noteworthy is that the command-and-control servers of this malware were registered to a (presumably) Chinese entity going by the name “Zhou Lou” during the period of September to November 2014.
— Was it the only malware that the PC in question was infected with?
— Hard to tell: Our product was disabled on this system for a significant period of time. However, we can say that while our product was enabled, it reported 121 alarms on different types of non-Equation malware: backdoors, exploits, Trojans, and adware. So it seems that this PC became quite a popular malware target.
— Did your software intentionally search for this kind of archive — using keywords like “top secret” or “classified,” for example?
— No, it didn’t. The malicious archive was automatically detected by our proactive protection technologies.
— Did you share this archive and/or files it contained to any third party?
— No, we didn’t. Moreover, we immediately deleted the archive by order of the CEO.
— Why did you delete the files?
— Because we don’t need source code, let alone presumably classified Word documents, to improve our protection. Compiled files (binaries) are more than enough for that — these and only these files remain in our storage.
— Did you find any evidence of your corporate network being compromised?
— Aside from Duqu 2.0, which we publicly reported following the incident, no, we didn’t.
— Are you willing to share your data with an independent party?
— Yes, we are prepared to provide all of the data for an independent audit. In the meantime, you can find more technical details in our report at Securelist.


In October 2017, Kaspersky Lab initiated a thorough review of our telemetry logs in relation to alleged 2015 incidents described in the media. We were aware only of one single incident that happened in 2014 during an APT investigation when our detection subsystems caught what appeared to be Equation malware source code files and decided to check if there were any similar incidents. Additionally, we decided to investigate if there were any third party intrusions in our systems besides Duqu 2.0 at the time of this alleged 2015 incident.
We have performed a deep investigation associated with the case from 2014 and preliminary results of this investigation revealed the following:
Verdict: HEUR:Trojan.Win32.GrayFish.gen

We believe the above is an accurate analysis of this incident from 2014. The investigation is still ongoing, and the company will provide additional technical information as it becomes available. We are planning to share full information about this incident, including all technical details with a trusted third party as part of our Global Transparency Initiative for cross-verification.
