Wi-Fi and Macs: avoiding trouble
Apple users say their Macs are a more secure working tool than Windows-based PCs. Historically, UNIX-based systems were less popular among users and hackers, so today many end-users and businesses (especially SMBs) tend to think that using Macs make them totally secure, without any extra measures necessary.
Unfortunately, it’s not exactly true. Aside from the fact that OS X have its share of bugs – Apple patches them in numbers on a regular basis – there are also global, non-platform specific security issues.
If you’re only responsible for your own hardware, all you have to care about is your own bank cards and personal documents. But what if it is a corporate hardware that is regularly used within your company network?
Wi-Fi and Macs: avoiding trouble #protectmybiz
Most remote workers are a potential vulnerability in a corporate network. An infected device authenticated within the network puts the entire network at risk, possibly ringing alarms for the entire IT staff and security service (not just IT security) in the company.
How it happens
A weekday morning. You’re in your favorite coffee shop. You take your first sip of a coffee and you start waking up – finally. Then you open your laptop and check work e-mail, then social networks – of course. A nice beginning. Coffee’s good too (keep in mind, though, that doctors don’t recommend exceeding four cups a day). Ah, yes, there’s a transaction to be completed before the end of the day.
But there’s a problem: most likely you’re using an open – i.e. public – Wi-Fi.
Pitfalls
Wi-Fi networks in the café and other public places are usually secured in following ways:
Regardless, there’s no guarantee that you are completely secure, even if WPA/WPA-2 is used. There is a multitude of ways for hackers to access all of the data transmitted.
There’s no guarantee that you are secure on a public WiFi, even if WPA/WPA-2 is used. #protectmybiz
Some wildlife examples
These are not the only possible scenarios, but we’ll try to secure ourselves.
Bolt and bar the shudder…
Automating the employees’ security is better than running hours-long, exhausting drills on security. And we do our best to help here. In the latest version of Kaspersky Small Office Security suite OS X-based PCs are protected as well.
Kaspersky Small Office Security includes:
Managing is simplified so much that even a non-tech-savvy employee will be able to figure out how to handle it quickly and easily. But, if there is the necessity for external expertise, Kaspersky Small Office Security also supports remote connections.
Our solution for larger companies – Kaspersky Endpoint Security for Mac – has recently reached version 10. It includes:
Per users’ requests a number of other features were added, such as installation without GUI, support for installation via Casper Suite – a third-party solution for OS X and iOS management, activation of local key via command line, and OS X 10.11 (El Capitan) support.
Installation is straightforward:
