Protecting NAS from malware
Users can be divided into two categories: those who still don’t make backups, and those who already do. When a hard drive burnout or some nasty ransomware suddenly destroys your important files, the wisdom of hindsight suddenly hits you — but sorting out backups is only half the battle. The other half is about protecting your home data center from malware, which has already begun to go after such systems.
Movies and TV shows on your laptop or PC, heart-warming holiday pics on your smartphone, work documents, and personal correspondence — sooner or later most users decide to move their digital possessions to a single secure location to keep them safe from the evil world outside.
For many people, network-attached storage (NAS) is the ideal solution for storage and security; it operates on a “set and forget” principle. These small boxes can already be heard humming in hundreds of thousands of homes, swapping data between home devices and backing it up at the same time.
Unfortunately, the more popular the NAS, the more often it lands in the crosshairs of cybercriminals. We don’t need to look very far for examples — after May 2017’s WannaCry epidemic even people who don’t care much about information security got to know about ransomware. Such malware can already penetrate network drives, and some types are even specially developed with NAS devices in mind.
For example, just a few days ago, news broke about a new ransomware by the name of StorageCrypt, which attacks NAS devices through the SambaCry vulnerability and encrypts files on them, after which it demands the tidy sum of 0.4 or 2 bitcoin for decryption (at the current rate, about $6,400 or $32,000, respectively). StorageCrypt has already left quite a few users without their backups.
By the way, the same SambaCry vulnerability can be used to populate devices with all sorts of infections: spyware, programs for DDoS attacks, cryptocurrency miners, and so forth. But luckily, in most cases, you can avert problems by properly configuring your NAS.
If data security is a priority, you may want to consider giving up some ease of use in favor of keeping files safe. We’ve posted before about what you need to focus on when creating your backup system. In short, isolating the storage from external connections — so it can’t be accessed from the Internet — is key. Sure, it’s convenient to hook up to your media library when out and about (so modern!), but you’re not the only one who finds it convenient.
The right way to make backups
Cybercriminals use special search engines that automatically scan the Internet for open network ports. For example, it happens that almost half a million devices are vulnerable to the infamous StorageCrypt. What other infections are lurking out there, and which security holes they’ll jump through into your home, no one knows.
Do you want your data to be securely protected from StorageCrypt and its potential offspring? If so, take a look at our NAS setup tips:
