A guide to buying and selling on eBay
Raise your hand if you have a lot of extra stuff in your home that you would like to get rid of. Keep it up if you really don’t want the hassle of having a yard sale.
OK, hands down.
Raise your other hand if you have ever wanted to buy something online instead of paying retail. Keep it up if you’ve looked for something that you just can’t find in the shops near you. OK, hands down.

If you raised your hand at least one time, you are a part of eBay’s target customer base. I am too. When I was chatting with some of my colleagues across the pond last week, eBay was a focal point of discussion. Sure, you can buy and sell merchandise across the world, but is it always safe? As someone who has used the site for more than a decade, I have seen both good and bad as both a buyer and a seller.
As with many sites on the Web, a lot of the security and protection issues come down to a need for common sense. In today’s post I’ll break down a number of issues ranging from getting started to some personal stories to help keep you safe.
If you have an eBay account already, feel free to scroll down to the next heading.
If you are new to eBay, get started by setting up an account from their https sign-up page.
When filling out the forms, make sure that you have a strong password, and do provide your phone number. The phone number is important should you need to have conflict resolution on a sale or purchase.
If you do not have a PayPal account, you will want to set one up; PayPal offers a seamless way to pay for products on eBay. When you are setting up your eBay account, the service will ask you to integrate with PayPal. From personal experiences, I would suggest selecting the option where you can select PayPal but need to log in each time as opposed to being logged in to both services at once. Do not use the same password for these accounts.
eBay makes buying and selling super-easy for people on the go or without a home computer. The mobile app puts e-commerce literally in the palm of your hand. However, you should be sure to download the official app from the Google Play (for Android) or App Store (for iOS) stores. Otherwise you might not be downloading the real thing.
eBay is the founding father of peer-to-peer online buying. You can buy most anything through the site, from historical artifacts to knickknacks to homemade goods (think Etsy) to high-end automobiles.
It is really no one’s business what you want to buy on eBay. Chances are, someone is out there looking to sell your favorite childhood toy or component to a vintage video game system.
Some buying tips:
Time to turn your trash into cash! Well, something like that. Did you read above where I noted that people were looking for a deal? Yeah, keep that in mind when you are selling. Chances are, there is someone out there who wants what you are selling.
However, just because you have some nostalgia for an item does not mean that a buyer will be willing to overpay for it. There will be trial and error along the way in selling items, and you will probably have a moment where you say, “They paid what for that?” I had that moment when I sold an empty beer can for $35 — but I’ll tell you about that offline.
Some tips for sellers:
Can you spot the difference between this picture —

— and this one?

