WHITEPAPER

KINGSLAYER– A SUPPLY 
CHAIN ATTACK
RSA RESEARCH

CONTENTS

Content and liability disclaimer 

Executive summary 

Summary 

Targeted takedown of Codoso malware 

Unexpected finding 

A backdoor in product used by sysadmins 

Targeted takedown and sinkholing of www.oraclesoft[.]net 

An irresistible enticement for Kingslayer actors  

Eleven and a half weeks 

Kingslayer connections to Codoso and Shell_Crew 

Recalling another software supply-chain attack 

Kingslayer’s memory-resident brother, the K2 Trojan 

Why software supply-chain attacks are here to stay 

Software vendors, and sysadmins on notice 

How was the Kingslayer investigation informed? 

Detection of Kingslayer, and the next software supply chain attack 

03

04

04

05

06

06

08

08  

09

10

11

12

12

13

14

14

How to investigate if you might have been compromised by Kingslayer   18 

Conclusion 

Acknowledgements 

Annex 1: Kingslayer Indicators of Compromise (IOCs) 

Appendix A: Event log analyzer application service executable analysis 

Appendix B: Select forensic findings from an enterprise admin’s machine 
infected with Kingslayer and the K2 secondary malware  

18

19

20

21

29

CONTENT AND LIABILITY DISCLAIMER 
This Research Paper is for general information purposes only, and should not be used as a 
substitute for consultation with professional advisors. RSA Security LLC, EMC Corporation, 
Dell, Inc. and their affiliates (collectively, “RSA”) have exercised reasonable care in the collecting, 
processing, and reporting of this information but have not independently verified, validated, or 
audited the data to verify the accuracy or completeness of the information.  RSA shall not be 
responsible for any errors or omissions contained on this Research Paper, and reserves the right 
to make changes anytime without notice. Mention of non-RSA products or services is provided 
for informational purposes only and constitutes neither an endorsement nor a recommendation 
by RSA. All RSA and third-party information provided in this Research Paper is provided on an “as 
is” basis. RSA DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, WITH REGARD TO ANY 
INFORMATION (INCLUDING ANY SOFTWARE, PRODUCTS, OR SERVICES) PROVIDED IN THIS 
RESEARCH PAPER, INCLUDING THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND 
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. Some jurisdictions do 
not allow the exclusion of implied warranties, so the above exclusion may not apply to you. In no 
event shall RSA be liable for any damages whatsoever, and in particular RSA shall not be liable for 
direct, special, indirect, consequential, or incidental damages, or damages for lost profits, loss of 
revenue or loss of use, cost of replacement goods, loss or damage to data arising out of the use or 
inability to use any RSA website, any RSA product or service. This includes damages arising from 
use of or in reliance on the documents or information present on this Research Paper, even if RSA 
has been advised of the possibility of such damages. 
Copyright © 2017 Dell Inc. or its subsidiaries. All Rights Reserved. Dell, EMC, RSA and other 
trademarks are trademarks of Dell Inc. or its subsidiaries.  Other trademarks may be the property 
of their respective owners. Published in the USA February 2017.

3

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

RSA Research investigated the source of suspicious, observed beaconing 
thought to be associated with targeted malware. In the course of this tac-
tical hunt for unidentified code, RSA discovered a sophisticated attack on 
a software supply-chain involving a Trojan inserted in otherwise legitimate 
software; software that is typically used by enterprise system administrators.  
We are sharing details of this attack investigation, along with mitigation and 
detection strategies, to promote awareness and preparation for future or 
ongoing software supply-chain attacks.

SUMMARY
In notable aviation incidents, aviation experts are charged to perform an 
investigation and share the findings in incident reports. Pilot trainers, airlines 
and aircraft manufacturers dig into the investigation reports with the goal of 
preventing such an incident from happening again. These reports and their 
ostensive goal, preventing an incident involving loss of life, have been the 
foundation of what is arguably the safest form of transportation. Policies, pro-
cedures and aircraft themselves are now safer than ever. Likewise, network 
defenders may dig into breach reports with the aim of preventing the next loss 
of valuable business information from the networks for which they are re-
sponsible. Helping to prevent the next loss of business or mission critical infor-
mation from a sophisticated exploitation campaign is, at least, one of the major 
goals of this report. You might notice we did not say prevention of compro-
mise. After reading this report, it will be obvious that preventing the advanced 
enterprise compromise represented by Kingslayer, would be difficult for any 
network defender. Preventing such types of compromises from sophisticat-
ed actors has always been challenging. The analysts behind this Kingslayer 
research project subscribe to the philosophy that detecting and responding to 
a compromise, before it leads to business risk, is an achievable goal.

In this Kingslayer post-mortem report, RSA Research describes a sophisticat-
ed software application supply chain attack that may have otherwise gone 
unnoticed by its targets. This attack is different in that it appears to have 
specifically targeted Windows® operating system administrators of large and, 
perhaps, sensitive organizations. These organizations appeared on a list of 
customers still displayed on the formerly subverted software vendor’s web-
site.  Nearly two years after the Kingslayer campaign was initiated, we still do 
not know how many of the customers listed on the website may have been 
breached, or possibly are still compromised, by the Kingslayer perpetrators.

4

TARGETED TAKEDOWN OF CODOSO MALWARE
Early in our investigation of, and takedown operation against, a broad exploita-
tion campaign we call Schoolbell1 , RSA Research observed unidentified bea-
coning to the URL www.oraclesoft[.]net2. We did not know what was causing 
the beaconing, but we suspected it was malware. This URL resolved to an IP 
address that, at the time, also resolved to another known malicious domain. 
This additional, malicious domain, google-dash[.]com3 , was used for command 
and control (C2) by a variant of PGV_PVID malware that had no antivirus (AV) 
coverage at the time it was submitted to VirusTotal in April 2016 (Figure 1). For 
more information on the malware behind this broad exploitation campaign, we 
recommend reading the Schoolbell report.

A NOTE ABOUT 
ATTRIBUTION
 
The malware and activities 
described in the Kingslayer 
post-mortem report shares code, 
tactics and unique malware 
artifacts with a large amount 
of other malware employed by 
actors in campaigns attributed to 
various named threat groups. RSA 
Research has, for years, dubbed 
this group of common tools and 
tactics Shell_Crew, since the first 
RSA Shell_Crew report released 
in 2014. 

However, shared malware 
development supply and 
infrastructure does not 
necessarily indicate that the 
espionage-focused actors behind 
the keyboards in this campaign, 
are all the same people as 
campaigns analyzed by other 
researchers.  Refer to the section 
“Kingslayer connections to 
Codoso and Shell_Crew” for more 
details.

It’s important to note threat 
actors often use domains which 
look like popular, well known 
domains, even going so far to 
temporarily “park” them on IP 
addresses associated with the 
legitimate entities  – but they 
have no link to the legitimate 
domain or company, as is the case 
throughout this research.

 Figure 1. Zero out of fifty five antivirus solutions detected this malware at time of first submission

5

 1 http://blogs.rsa.com/schoolbell-class-is-in-session
 2 It’s important to note threat actors often use domains which look like well-known domains but 
they have no link to the legitimate domain or company
 3 It’s important to note threat actors often use domains which look like well-known domains but 
they have no link to the legitimate domain or company

UNEXPECTED FINDING
We did not know what malware type might be using the domain www.oracle-
soft[.]net, but through passive analysis, we identified and contacted an infected 
organization.  Following some significant monitoring efforts by the cooperat-
ing infected subject, endpoint forensic analysis, and reverse engineering, RSA 
Research came to an unexpected conclusion. A software application used by 
system administrators to analyze Windows logs had been subverted at its dis-
tribution point with malicious, signed code, back in April 2015. The remaining 
sections of this paper will discuss how that conclusion was made.

A BACKDOOR IN PRODUCT USED BY SYSADMINS
Further research allowed RSA analysts to determine the origin of the offending 
software. For the purposes of this publication, we will refer to the unnamed 
software vendor as “Alpha”. Alpha owns and operates a website designed to help 
Windows system administrators interpret and troubleshoot problems indicated 
in Windows event logs. The website also offers paid subscribers a license to a 
tool that helps with analyzing Windows event logs. It is this software, and its 
updates, that were subverted.  

RSA Research obtained a copy of the software suspected of containing the com-
promise. Figure 2 gives an overview of the general infection chain and C2.

Figure 2 Kingslayer compromise infection chain

6

For purposes of MSI downloads and for auto-updating the application, Alpha 
maintains multiple websites. During the time these particular websites were 
subverted, any user who attempted a new install or allowed their current 
version to auto-update (the default action) received the malicious version of 
the software. This action occurred via an .htaccess redirect on two of Alpha’s 
websites (both MSI download and automated update sites) that pointed to a 
website controlled by the malicious actors. This actor-controlled website host-
ed the subverted, signed versions of the application service executable, and MSI 
containing the Trojan. Once the install or update was complete, the software 
would attempt to load secondary payloads.

RSA Research observed the legitimate application used a valid Authenticode 
signature issued by Alpha. At least three binaries, as well as an MSI software 
installation package, were determined to have been modified for malicious 
purposes using the Alpha application’s original source code, and signed with the 
stolen code signing private key. RSA Research contacted Alpha, who subse-
quently divulged that their software packaging system was compromised and 
had delivered this compromised binary from 09 April 2015 to 25 April 2015. 

Complicating our initial attempt at dynamic analysis of the suspected backdoor 
in the RSA Research lab was the employment of an unusual diurnal beacon 
sleep algorithm. 

The The backdoor was configured to only beacon to www.oraclesoft[.]net 
between the hours of 1500 to 0000 (3 pm to midnight) UTC; a daily window of 
9 hours. It was also configured to only beacon four days a week; on Saturday, 
Tuesday, Thursday and Friday. 

The exact intent behind this temporal beaconing algorithm is unclear. More 
details on Kingslayer’s backdoor sleep algorithm are found in the Kingslayer 
executable analysis in Appendix A.

7

TARGETED TAKEDOWN AND SINKHOLING OF  
WWW.ORACLESOFT[.]NET
Armed with the evidence that www.oraclesoft[.]net was being used strictly for 
malicious purposes, RSA Research sinkholed4 it to further inform our Kingslayer 
investigation.

Within a few days of the sinkholing, RSA Research identified many of the 
infected organizations beaconing to our sinkhole and provided compromise 
notifications. One of the infected organizations, dubbed “Iota” for the purposes 
of this publication, subsequently engaged the RSA Incident Response (IR) team 
for remediation assistance.

AN IRRESISTIBLE ENTICEMENT FOR KINGSLAYER 
ACTORS
Although we do not know the exact reasons the Kingslayer actors chose to 
subvert Alpha’s software product, the list of possible end-users of the applica-
tion likely served as a powerful motivator.  As stated earlier, a free application 
license was offered to subscribers of Alpha’s event log information portal ser-
vice. While we do not know how many of these subscribers took advantage of 
the free license and installed the application during the subversion window, it is 
logical that some did. Organizations who, at some time, subscribed to the event 
log portal are displayed on Alpha’s website and include:
• 4 major telecommunications providers
• 10+ western military organizations

• 24+ Fortune 500 companies

• 5 major defense contractors

• 36+ major IT product manufacturers or solutions providers

• 24+ western government organizations

• 24+ banks and financial institutions

• 45+ higher educational institutions

8

 4 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DNS_sinkhole

ELEVEN AND A HALF WEEKS
Because we have an incomplete picture of the successful Kingslayer target set, 
our timeline has some significant gaps. One important gap begging for expla-
nation was the time between when Alpha’s websites and software distribution 
were remediated on 26 April 2015, and the time when forensic evidence shows 
that Kingslayer visited the Iota network on 15 July 2015 (Figure 3).

Figure 3 Kingslayer substantive event timeline

One might surmise that if Iota was of particular interest to the Kingslayer 
actors, then less than eleven and a half weeks would pass before exploitation of 
their target network. One possible explanation is that Iota was not a preferred 
target at all. Rather, the eleven and a half weeks was spent by the actors exploit-
ing potentially more lucrative targets than Iota. In effect, RSA Research pro-
poses that Iota was an inconsequential target, passed over for some sufficient 
time for more important exploitation to be executed. This is why a supply chain 
attack is attractive to threat actors; a single compromise within the supply 
chain can yield numerous targets with minimal additional effort.

Alpha issued a Security Notification on their website on 30 June 2016 and up-
dated the notification on July 17, 2016 at RSA’s request, following findings from 
further investigation on Iota’s network compromised by Kingslayer. 

9

KINGSLAYER CONNECTIONS TO CODOSO AND 
SHELL_CREW
The Kingslayer backdoor, discovered during an RSA Research “excavation” into 
common C2 infrastructure and malware bytecode, shares tactics previously ob-
served used by Shell_Crew, an adversary RSA Research reported on in January 
2014 5 . The specific infrastructure overlapping with the Kingslayer campaign 
was tied to an adversary identified as Codoso by Palo Alto 6  and ProofPoint 7  in 
the first quarter of 2016, and the apparent operational infrastructure harvest-
ing campaign that we call Schoolbell. We do not have high confidence that the 
Codoso perpetrators are directly related to the Shell_Crew activity encoun-
tered in 2013 and 2014, but we observed that they use common resources and 
tools. For one, Codoso and Shell_Crew use continuously evolving versions of 
malware for which no builder or source code has been found in the wild. These 
include older Derusbi variants, as well as the newly pressed Rekaf, TXER, PGV_
PVID and Bergard as described by ProofPoint, PaloAlto, and in the Schoolbell 
blog post. This indicates that they have some common, restricted source for this 
distinctive malware. Consistent common malware bytecode, strings, and en-
coding routines were also noted by other researchers such as Proofpoint. These 
attributes are, thus far, unique to the activity groups and have allowed RSA 
Research and others to track malware clusters as they appear in the wild. For 
consistency we will attribute the activity in the Kingslayer campaign to King-
slayer, but acknowledge some risk of erroneously conflating it with other threat 
groups labeled variously by other researchers as Codoso, as well as historic 
activity that RSA Research has grouped together as Shell_Crew.

The clearest operational links between Kingslayer and other recent campaigns 
attributed to Codoso are overlapping domains and IP addresses used for C2 
in 2015 and 2016. The Kingslayer C2 URL www.oraclesoft[.]net has temporal 
overlaps with identified infrastructure from seven other C2 domains and twelve 
unique C2 IP addresses associated with at least twenty four unique samples of 
malware attributed to Codoso by ProofPoint and Palo Alto (Figure 4, attached 
also in Annex), and described in the Schoolbell blogpost by RSA Research.

10

5 https://www.emc.com/collateral/white-papers/h12756-wp-shell-crew.pdf
6 http://researchcenter.paloaltonetworks.com/2016/01/new-attacks-linked-to-c0d0s0-group/
7 https://www.proofpoint.com/us/exploring-bergard-old-malware-new-tricks

Figure 4 How Kingslayer backdoor is linked to identified Codoso/Schoolbell campaign infrastructure 
(available for download in Annex 1)

RECALLING ANOTHER SOFTWARE SUPPLY-CHAIN 
ATTACK
The Kingslayer campaign shares similarities with another supply-chain attack. 
In the Monju Incident 8 the attackers subverted an otherwise legitimate soft-
ware server by using a redirect to a different, unrelated website controlled by 
the actors. Like Kingslayer, the target system with the already installed soft-
ware would attempt to get an update, but instead received a malicious payload 
purporting to be an update that consisted of the original application software 
bundled with a Trojan, instead of a legitimate update. In the Kingslayer attack, 
systems attempting to get updates to an already installed Windows operating 
systems log analysis software program were transparently redirected to a web-
site controlled by the Kingslayer actors, in which the illegitimate website would 
download a subverted update executable. What may have differed from the 
Monju incident was the fact that while all software installations that attempted 
to update during the Kingslayer campaign received a malicious but otherwise 
functioning update, we do not know how many of them also received the sec-
ondary malware. It is this secondary malware that has not yet been found in the 
wild. 

We have no evidence to suggest the actors behind the Monju Incident and King-
slayer are related, other than they used one or more of the same tactics.

 

11

8 http://www.contextis.com/documents/30/TA10009_20140127_-_CTI_Threat_Advisory_-_
The_Monju_Incident1.pdf

KINGSLAYER’S MEMORY-RESIDENT BROTHER, THE 
K2 TROJAN
RSA Research believes all of the particular Alpha application installations at-
tempting to update during the 17 day Kingslayer subversion window received a 
malicious but otherwise functioning update. We do not know how many of them 
also received the secondary malware. Using passive analysis, RSA Research was 
able to identify the probable beaconing activity pattern used by the secondary 
malware. Like the Kingslayer backdoor loader, the secondary malware used the 
domain www.oraclesoft[.]net for C2. We have dubbed this secondary malware 
“Kingslayer Two” or “K2.”  The beaconing pattern of K2 differed from the King-
slayer backdoor that loaded it. K2 beacons every ten minutes without a defined 
sleep period. Based on passively observed beacon activity from three different 
K2-infected systems, we believe K2’s HTTP GET beacon pattern is a three to 
four digit load identifier that may represent the K2 malware load sequence 
assigned to each unique infection. This number appeared to be both unique, and 
static for each infected system. So 3423 in Table 1 might represent the 3,423rd 
unique system loaded with the K2 Trojan.

 
Table 1 Kingslayer secondary malware K2 with possible load identifier highlighted in yellow

GET /softs/updatecheck.html?3423&464336 HTTP/1.1
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (compatible; MSIE 10.0; Windows NT 6.1; WOW64; Trident/6.0)
Host: www.oraclesoft.net

RSA Research also has insight into K2 Trojan’s capabilities based on the arti-
facts left on a system that had K2 installed. (See Appendix B)  From the forensic 
artifacts, RSA Research infers that K2’s capabilities include:

• running arbitrary Windows shell commands with SYSTEM-level privileges, 

• upload and download of files, and 

• execution of programs uploaded by the attackers. 

WHY SOFTWARE SUPPLY-CHAIN ATTACKS ARE HERE 
TO STAY
Supply-chain attacks provide strategic advantages to attackers for several rea-
sons. First, they provide one compromise vector to multiple potential targets. 
Second, supply chain exploitation attacks, by their very nature, are stealthy and 
have the potential to provide the attacker access to their targets for a much lon-
ger period than malware delivered by other common means, by evading tradi-
tional network analysis and detection tools. And finally, software supply chain 
attacks offer considerable “bang for the buck” against otherwise hardened 
targets9 .

9 https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/content/files/protected_files/guidance_files/Cyber-security-risks-in-
the-supply-chain.pdf

12

In the case of Kingslayer, this especially rings true because the specific sys-
tem-administrator-related systems most likely to be infected offer the ideal 
beachhead and operational staging environment for systematic exploitation of 
a large enterprise. 

Subverting an application used almost exclusively by enterprise Windows 
system administrators gives the perpetrators direct access to the most sensi-
tive parts on an organization’s network via a workstation or server used reg-
ularly by the “king of the network.”  A system administrator’s workstation and 
cache of credentials invariably provides the most access of any system on an 
enterprise network. In our experience, the credentials maintained by system 
administrators usually enable extensive access to internal and external network 
infrastructure of even the most sensitive organization’s enterprise. RSA Re-
search observed Kingslayer installed on the workstation of the senior systems 
administrator at one organization and on the domain controllers of another 
organization. We assess that installations of the targeted application on work-
stations or servers with unprivileged users would be exceptions, rather than the 
rule, because the purpose of the targeted log analyzer software is to be used by 
system, security, and other privileged administrators.

SOFTWARE VENDORS, AND SYSADMINS ON NOTICE
Subversion of an application preferentially used by enterprise system or secu-
rity administrators provides an advanced threat group a nearly unprecedented 
“best bang for the buck.”  There is no need to craft phishing emails, or sort the 
chaff from successful but unfruitful malware infections. It would not be hard to 
posit that Kingslayer might serve as a template for other attacks on otherwise 
hardened enterprise networks. This should put the developers of applications 
and software aimed for exclusive use by enterprise network administrators on 
notice. Although the following are good tenants of all software vendors, they 
are especially important when the application in question would disproportion-
ality be used by administrators of a network. These include:

• File integrity monitoring

• Secure (dedicated or virtually private) hosting

• Validated time stamping of digital signatures

• Secure storage of and deployment of code-signing keys, ideally employing a 
High Security Module (HSM)

•  Comprehensive network and endpoint visibility of development environment

•  Breach disclosure policy that ensures timely incident notification to affected 
customers  

13

Enterprise network administrators should take heed that they are perhaps 
the most important and pivotal target for advanced threats interested in what 
might be found on those enterprise networks10 . Network admins should not 
exempt their own systems, or systems to which only they have access, from 
network and endpoint visibility. Sysadmins should also contribute to and follow 
a change control policy that evaluates the software vendor and the software 
itself for potential risk, prior to installing it11 . 

HOW WAS THE KINGSLAYER INVESTIGATION  
INFORMED?
The analysis that informed the Kingslayer campaign investigation is described 
in general terms as iterative, using “many and any friendly means” employed by 
a multi-disciplinary team. While characterizing the purpose, impact and extent 
of the malicious activity perpetrated by the Kingslayer campaign operators, 
RSA Research provided dozens of hours of advanced incident and analysis 
support to infected organizations identified by sinkholing and passive means. 
Sometimes our support was in exchange for threat intelligence artifacts left 
behind by the actors. At other times we provided advice and expertise with the 
understanding that the infected organization would not or could not provide 
any information in return. We collaborated with many colleagues in the secu-
rity industry, reached out to new partners as well as called upon the extensive 
capabilities of SecureWorks, a Dell Technologies company.

DETECTION OF KINGSLAYER, AND THE NEXT SOFT-
WARE SUPPLY CHAIN ATTACK
Techniques deployed by industry-wide antivirus and endpoint prevention tech-
nologies are decidedly poorly equipped for detecting, much less preventing, a 
remote code-loading backdoor inserted into what would otherwise be a legit-
imate software product. This is exactly what the Kingslayer actors did in their 
campaign. 

In our experience, signature or behavior-based antivirus is unable to differenti-
ate between a network-enabled feature and a backdoor in the product. In fact, 
RSA Research first identified the Kingslayer backdoor installed on an enterprise 
system that employed next generation antivirus. The antivirus failed to detect 
anything, even when it appeared the backdoor had downloaded and loaded the 
secondary malware into memory, and opened connections for C2.

14

10 http://www.slideshare.net/harmj0y/i-hunt-sys-admins-20
11 http://csrc.nist.gov/scrm/documents/briefings/Workshop-Brief-on-Cyber-Supply-Chain-Best-
Practices.pdf

RSA NETWITNESS® ENDPOINT EDR TOOL
Compare this antivirus failure with RSA NetWitness® Endpoint, an Enterprise 
Detection and Response (EDR) tool that is available to RSA customers and 
is notably used by the RSA IR Team in their customer engagements. On a lab 
Windows system, RSA Research recreated the Kingslayer backdoor installa-
tion, then deployed RSA NetWitness Endpoint. In Figure 5, we see that RSA 
NetWitness Endpoint identified an instance of [FLOATING_CODE], revealing 
that the backdoored “Service.exe” process established multiple connections. 
[FLOATING_CODE] identifies a block of code present in a process private 
executable address space, as opposed to a library properly loaded from disk. 
Floating code is missing a normal DLL header. In otherwise, legitimate software 
with a backdoor such as that employed by Kingslayer, the network connections 
were established from that allocated block of code, which is suspicious.

Figure 5 RSA NetWitness Endpoint detection of the Kingslayer backdoor

15

In Figure 6, a threat hunter behind the RSA NetWitness Endpoint console dug 
into the network details tab, to reveal the multiple connections to a suspicious 
domain.

Figure 6 RSA Netwitness Endpoint details the network connections kicked off by Kingslayer’s floating code

RSA NETWITNESS PACKETS AND LOGS
While RSA NetWitness Endpoint will flag the floating code of Kingslayer, a 
method to detect the network traffic of a backdoor compromise like Kingslayer 
with network packet visibility is also important. Consider that the RSA IR team 
found a Kingslayer-compromised organization “enjoyed” multiple weeks of stat-
ic compromise before the actor(s) arrived on scene to begin interactive lateral 
exploitation. Early detection of compromise, then, can be key to dramatically 
reducing business risk.

The Event Stream Analysis (ESA) capability in RSA NetWitness technology was 
designed by researchers in the RSA Data Sciences team after analyzing billions 
of packets of known C2 activity. ESA is the statistical threat hunting machine 
that never goes to sleep, using machine learning to calculate scores on a very 
large number of HTTP sessions and domains. Indeed, even the unusual bea-
coning patterns of the Kingslayer Trojan were flagged by the ESA as Suspected 
C&C (Figure7).

16

Figure 7 ESA identifies Kingslayer beaconing as Suspected C&C

Even without the interactive C2 of an “operator behind the keyboard” that 
might trigger other alerts, consider how a Security Operations Center will be 
alerted to suspicious activity, and stop the compromise before an actor starts 
controlling assets inside the network. For more details on how to hunt using 
RSA NetWitness capabilities such as ESA, refer to the RSA NetWitness hunting 
guide12.

17

12 https://community.rsa.com/docs/DOC-62341

HOW TO INVESTIGATE IF YOU MIGHT HAVE BEEN 
COMPROMISED BY KINGSLAYER
An enterprise network finding that the subverted application was installed 
prior to and/or updated during the compromise window of 09-25 April 2015, 
should initiate an investigation. While prevention of compromise through King-
slayer might not have been possible without the most stringent change control 
policy and thorough software analysis and auditing, an investigation of what 
may have been done by Kingslayer actors should be initiated. It is possible that 
the actors have established and still maintain avenues of access, especially on 
high-value target networks. 

How can you tell if a system has had this subverted software installed?  The 
Yara signature included in the Kingslayer report annex, combined with a 
Yara-capable EDR tool, such as RSA NetWitness Endpoint, will facilitate a rapid 
enterprise survey for Kingslayer artifacts. RSA Research’s Yara signature will 
detect artifacts from the stolen code-signing key used to sign DLLs and EXEs in 
the Kingslayer backdoor. While this code-signing key was also used to sign some 
limited number of legitimate software versions, any hits with this signature 
warrants investigation. Systems and Windows networks found with any of the 
Indicators of Compromise (IOCs) in the Kingslayer IOC list, should be analyzed 
for compromise. Enterprise investigation should focus on identifying any ongo-
ing C2 channels and activity, and an assessment of business risk/loss should a 
breach be indicated.

CONCLUSION
RSA Research observed sustained activity from an advanced threat actor group 
over 18+ months, tied to campaigns attributed to Codoso. There was an evo-
lutionary deployment of tools characterized by very low (if any) coverage by 
antivirus vendors. In the course of our research and disruption of this malicious 
activity, RSA was able to uncover an advanced strategic targeting campaign 
involving a software supply chain attack aimed at sysadmins of large enterpris-
es, dubbed Kingslayer. While the entire target set of Kingslayer is unknown, 
RSA Research expects the information contained in this report to be useful 
for network defenders in determining if they have been Kingslayer subjects of 
compromise. This may not be the last software supply chain attack from these 
or related actors. We believe Kingslayer, with its inherent enterprise breach 
efficacy and long interlude before discovery, could serve as a template for 
future strategic network compromises. We illustrated that it takes keen visibil-
ity and awareness, and the right tools, to discover advanced threat activity like 
Kingslayer. Finally, organizations need to have the ability to detect and respond 
to the next supply chain attack, before it has an impact on their business or 
mission.

18

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
RSA Research would like to thank Chuck Helstein, Darien Huss of ProofPoint, 
Luis Garcia of luisangelgarcia.com, MS-ISAC13  and CCIRC14.

19

13 https://msisac.cisecurity.org
14 https://www.publicsafety.gc.ca/cnt/ntnl-scrt/cbr-scrt/ccirc-ccric-eng.aspx

ANNEX 1: KINGSLAYER INDICATORS OF  
COMPROMISE (IOCS)
Download available on rsa.com 15

Yara Signature:

rule Kingslayer_codekey

{

meta:

 

 author = “RSA Research”

 

 date = “03 February 2017”

 

 

 hash2 = “f97a2744a4964044c60ac241f92e05d7”

 hash3 = “76ab4a360b59fe99be1ba7b9488b5188”

 hash4 = “1b57396c834d2eb364d28eb0eb28d8e4”

strings:

 $val0 = { 31 33 31 31 30 34 31 39 33 39 31 39 5A 17 0D 31 35 31 31 30 34 31 
39 33 39 31 39 5A }

 $ven0 = { 41 6C 74 61 69 72 20 54 65 63 68 6E 6F 6C 6F 67 69 65 73 }

 uint16(0) == 0x5A4D and $val0 and $ven0

20

}

15 

APPENDIX A: EVENT LOG ANALYZER APPLICATION 
SERVICE EXECUTABLE ANALYSIS
Table 2 shows the basic properties of the Kingslayer backdoored service execut-
able

Table 2 Malware file properties

Figure 8 shows the valid Authenticode digital signature of the service execut-
able

Figure 8 Valid Authenticode signature

The Trojan functionality is initiated when the [Redacted]Service is started. The 
[Redacted]ServiceMailCheck class is instantiated as an object and the Init-
Check() Method is called. Figure 9 shows the code responsible for the Init-
Check().

21

Figure 9 InitCheck() method

The [Redacted]ServiceMailCheck class sets a mailID string to a base64 encoded 
value. The InitCheck() Method then calls the public Method Run in a new thread 
(Figure 10).

Figure 10 Encoded string

The public Method Run checks the time and uses another encrypted string to 
set localization. This decryption routine, detailed later, decrypts the encrypted 
string to “Tokyo Standard Time” and will only run on Saturday, Tuesday, Thurs-
day and Friday, in a nine-hour window prior to midnight. The malware is hard 
coded to sleep 20 minutes (2 different 10 minute windows) between beacons 
(Figure 11).

22

Figure 11 Beacon timing and interval

The malware will decrypt the previously set MailID variable “Ex9TAVIbX-
ghSXAAFSVBLRE8QWU8QVQ8fQQINT0FJSklLEkQeDFEfQA==”). Figure 12 
depicts the decryption routine.

Figure 12 Decryption routine

23

The routine will initially base64 decode the MailID variable, and then hash the 
decoded data with the MD5 hashing algorithm. It will then set a seed byte based 
on the first byte of the decoded text. Each byte of the text is XOR decrypted 
against its respective byte in the MD5 sum, and then further XOR decrypted by 
the seed byte. The python script (Table 3) decodes encoded variables.

Table 3 Python String decrypter to decode Kingslayer’s encoded variables

This script will output the decoded C2 URL. The encoded data from this sample 
will decode to http://www.oraclesoft[.]net/mailcheck.png (Figure 13). This URL 
matched the traffic that was observed in the beaconing from Iota to the RSA 
sink hole.

Figure 13 Beacon matches decrypted URL

24

The LoadImage() Method creates a new thread and calls the ProcessThread() 
Method, passing the URL and password (Figure 14).

Figure 14 New thread for beacon

The ProcessThread() Method connects to the URL and builds the HTTP request 
as observed in network traffic. This function then checks to see if the gzip HTTP 
response header is present and decompresses the payload. It then sends the 
byte string to an unpacking function which writes the file to disk. This activity is 
similar to that observed by a ProofPoint analyst in a post on Bergard and Codo-
so. The ProofPoint analyst observed the Bergard infection to “receive instruc-
tions from its C2 to retrieve a PNG file (Fig. 15) containing an encoded PlugX 
payload (md5: 5c36e8d5beee7fbc0377db59071b9980)16.”

We do not know if the K2 Trojan decoded from the “mailcheck.png” image file 
discussed in the main body of this research paper was PlugX, or some other 
Trojan/RAT.

25

16 https://www.proofpoint.com/us/exploring-bergard-old-malware-new-tricks

Figure 15 Unpacking method employed to load “K2”

The malware then checks the downloaded and unpacked data to verify the first 
two bytes are decimal 77 90 (0x4D5A). The malware performs these checks to 
ensure the data is a valid executable binary (Figure 16).

Figure 16 K2 Trojan magic check

26

CloudClimb then calls the RunByML() method which checks if the file is a valid 
executable and runs it, then writes the status to the console (Figure 17). Be-
cause this software is running as a service, it is running in Windows Session 0; 
therefore the console is hidden from the user. 

Figure 17 Additional payload execution

27

There exists an alternate path and URL to this DLL loading functionality. In 
[Redacted]Service.AnalyzeLogs.Execute() email sending functionality there is 
an unencrypted URL and password (Figure 18). 

Figure 18 Alternate URL in Kingslayer backdoor
The registration date of the domain (Table 4) contained in this URL coincides 
with the timeframe of the known compromise of Alpha’s source code and web-
sites in late March, 2015.

Table 4 2015 timekard.com registration details
Beaconing to this domain has not been observed and RSA Research believes 
this code will only execute if the application is configured to send email reports 
on logs. In mid-2016 the domain registration for timekard[.]com expired and 
was registered by a legitimate entity having nothing to do with the malicious 
activity described in this investigation.

28

APPENDIX B: SELECT FORENSIC FINDINGS FROM 
AN ENTERPRISE ADMIN’S MACHINE INFECTED WITH 
KINGSLAYER AND THE K2 SECONDARY MALWARE
The machine investigated was used by Iota’s principal Windows system admin-
istrator, and had the backdoored event log analysis service installed on 22 April 
2015 at 19:07:18 UTC (Table 5), which was in the known subversion window of 
Alpha’s websites.

Table 5 Event log analysis application service installation

The SYSTEM hive contains the Application Compatibility Cache entries. These 
entries track executable files for compatibility purposes between Windows 
upgrades. Several suspicious entries (Table 6) were discovered during the host 
triage. It is important to note that the timestamps on these entries are the $SI 
MTIME of the file and are not reliable indicators.

Table 6 Suspicious ShimCache entries

29

ANALYSIS OF BP.EXE 
In this same directory an executable was discovered that will find, decrypt and 
display passwords saved in Chrome and Firefox (Table 7). This file had an $FN 
CTIME of 17 August 2015 12:26:20.292 and did not appear to be executed as it 
was not in the shimcache. The file was owned by the Windows security identi-
fier (SID) S-1-5-32-544, the SYSTEM account. This matches with the owner of 
the running backdoored event log analysis service, which also runs as SYSTEM. 

Table 7 Password dumper

The password dumper starts by gathering system information about the cur-
rent logged-on user in order to discover the individual user paths such as C:\
Users\Usera\AppData. It then begins reading the SQLlite database files and 
decrypting saved passwords.

Figure 19 SQLite database file path

The sample has the SQLite libraries statically linked at compile time, which ac-
counts for the large size. It then leverages these functions to query the SQLite 
database to retrieve the encrypted stored passwords.

30

Figure 20 Selecting encrypted passwords

Sub_401BA9 leads to a series of calls to get the logged on user, impersonate 
that user in order to open the Windows key store to retrieve the encryption 
keys and, finally, decrypts the user’s stored passwords.

Figure 21 Stored password decryption

If the sample was successful, it will print the decrypted URL, Username and 
Password to the terminal.

31

Figure 22 Terminal output of password dumper

After the sample has finished with Chrome passwords it moves on in a similar 
fashion to stored Firefox passwords and prints them to the terminal.

Figure 23 Firefox output

32

