
Steganography Tools: a non exhaustive survey




Yesterday, talking about steganography with CeSeNA group, came out that some people were not familiar with some of the most significative tools in the steganography field. Thanks to Luca Mella, who shared with me a quite exhaustive list, I am going to post some interesting steganography resources to have a place where to find them all.



According to wikipedia Steganography is the art and science of writing hidden messages in such a way that no one, apart from the sender and intended recipient, suspects the existence of the message, a form of security through obscurity. In other words the art of hiding informations over the obscurity principle (please don't confuse it with cryptography, which is totally another topic)



The first tool that I am going to list is called: webStego (and its Open version). WebStego offers steganography in bitmaps, text files, HTML files and PDF files. It is has two very user-friendly interfaces and is ideal for securely transmitting data online or adding copyright information, especially with the copyright information manager.





OutGuess is another in great tool to detect steganographic content in images. It implements different steganographic algorithms. Based on clustering techniques it is able to detect on JPEG images the following algorithms: jsteg,
jphide (unix and windows),
invisible secrets,
outguess 01.3b,
F5 (header analysis),
appendX and camouflage.







Talking about steganography on audio file a great resource is the following one provided by snot monkey. It offers a great survey with the most used techniques such as: LSB Coding, Parity Coding, Phase Coding, Spread Spectrum coding and Echo Hiding. MP3Stego is a tool woking on audio files. Specifically it works on MP3 filetypes. It is able to hide and to extract content from MP3 files.






VSL: Virtual Steganographic Laboratory (VSL) is a graphical block diagramming tool that allows complex using, testing and adjusting of methods both for image steganography and steganalysis. VSL provides simple GUI along with modular, plug-in architecture. 








The Digital Invisible Ink Toolkit is a Java steganography tool that can hide any sort of file inside a digital image (regarding that the message will fit, and the image is 24 bit colour). It works on most of the Operative Systems since Java Based.






Specifically,  Digital Invisible Ink Toolkit has a great analysis feature in which you decide what image to be analyzed, which algorithm to check (even all) anywhere to stamp the results. This tool is great to find out what tripe of steganography has been used in a given image. The following image (click to make it bigger) shows the analysis section.









Another interesting way to hide information is trough the Text. This techniques consists in hiding information into ascii characters. There are several ways to do that such as: (a) hiding information in spaces, (b) tabs and (c) peculation marks. Spammimic is one of the best exponents of this techniques. Finally I conclude this absolutely not exhaustive review of Steganography tools with a website containing most of the stego tools out there. 




