
Watching HULU through BOXEE outside US.


Hello everybody, today I resolved a very old problem on my multimedia center (boxee) : watching hulu outside the US. As you probably know, HULU  is a website that offers commercial-supported streaming video of TV shows and movies from NBC, Fox and many other networks and studios. Hulu videos are currently offered only to users in the United States.Hulu provides video in Flash Video format, including many films and shows that are available in 480p. In addition, some TV shows and movies are now offered in high-definition. Hulu also provides web syndication services for other websites including AOL, MSN, MySpace, Yahoo! and Comcast's Fancast.com. Hulu offers over 100 motion pictures that range from classic to modern films. The movie content is provided by studios such as Universal Pictures, 20th Century Fox, MGM, Lionsgate Entertainment and Sony Pictures among others. Hulu also offers trailers for new and upcoming movies. R-rated and TV-MA content is available unedited but only for registered users. Boxee is definitely my favorite "social" multimedia center.Boxee is a free cross-platform media center and entertainment hub with social networking features that is a fork of the open source XBMC media center software. As a "'Social Media Center", Boxee enables its users to view, rate and recommend content to their friends through many social networking features.Watching hulu outside the US' land sounds pretty easy by adding to your connection a free US's proxy. This might works but how long your proxy will be up ? Moreover, how do you know what is the best (the fastest) proxy available during your connection time ? Some time ago I tried, using the free proxy's lists but when, you find the right proxy you are too tired to watch the desidered movie :P. The "proxy finding process" took too many time . So after a deep google search and after having tried many different solutions I can suggest the HotSpotShield solution . It searches dynamically the fastest proxy building a VPN by changing your internet connections, everything for free. What you need is to download and install HotSpotShield. After the installation process (it requires the administrator's password) you get a red/green icon on the top bar like this :By clicking over it you decide if you want to connect to the free VPN or if you don't .After the connection has been made correctly, open your boxee media center and open the HULU plugin. The starting is quite slow but after that, everything goes faster  !


