
Facebook reverses term of service.


I think all of you facebook people need to know little more about facebook's term of services.Directly from EPIC new:On February 18, 2009, hours before EPIC planned to file a complaintwith federal regulators regarding changes to Facebook's Terms ofService, the social network service restored the original policy.Facebook also committed to a more transparent, participatory processregarding future changes to its Terms of Service, a process that"reflect[s] the principles and values of the people using the service.""Facebook users will have a lot of input in crafting these terms," thecompany promised.The modified Terms of Service were announced on February 4, were widelycriticized, and were to be the subject of the EPIC Federal TradeCommission complaint. EPIC observed that the modified Terms of Serviceincluded several material changes, which adversely impacted Facebookcustomers, eviscerated wide-recognized privacy rights, and unilaterallyand retroactively transferred control of user generated content toFacebook. These modifications were made without any meaningful noticeto Facebook users. EPIC noted that the unilateral transfer of rights toFacebook was an unfair and deceptive business practice. Facebook usersobserved that, under the revised policies, Facebook asserted broad,permanent, and retroactive rights to users' personal information - evenafter they deleted their accounts. The EPIC complaint was supported bymore than a dozen consumer and privacy organizations.Facebook's original Terms of Service stated "[w]hen you post UserContent to the Site, you authorize and direct us to make such copiesthereof as we deem necessary in order to facilitate the posting andstorage of the User Content on the Site." The original Terms of Servicealso promised "[y]ou may remove your User Content from the Site at anytime. If you choose to remove your User Content, the license granted[to Facebook] will automatically expire..." These clauses allowFacebook to make use of user-generated information in a manner that isconsistent with typical privacy laws, which permit the business use ofcustomer data for purposes that are necessary or incident to theprovision to the service.Facebook's modified Terms of Service removed language regardingdeletion of users' content from Facebook and the expiration ofFacebook's right to use such content. The modified terms also omittedthe provision limiting Facebook's use of user data to activitiesincident to providing the service. The modified terms permittedFacebook to utilize users' personal information for any purpose –including explicitly the commercialization and monetization of Facebookusers' names and likenesses – for Facebook's benefit. Facebook'smodified Terms of Service asserted greater rights to user data thanpolicies established by similar services, including MySpace, Yahoo, andTwitter.In response to user concerns, Facebook has established a new GroupFacebook Bill of Rights and Responsibilities and is seeking commentsfrom users. The page includes these statements from the company:1. You own your information. Facebook does not. This includes yourphotos and all other content.2. Facebook doesn't claim rights to any of your photos or othercontent. We need a license in order to help you share informationwith your friends, but we don't claim to own your information.3. We won't use the information you share on Facebook for anythingyou haven't asked us to. We realize our current terms are too broadhere and they make it seem like we might share information in waysyou don't want, but this isn't what we're doing.4. We will not share your information with anyone if you deactivateyour account. If you've already sent a friend a message, they'llstill have that message. However, when you deactivate your account,all of your photos and other content are removed.5. We apologize for the confusion around these issues. We neverintended to claim ownership over people's content even though that'swhat it seems like to many people. This was a mistake and we apologizefor the confusion.


