
FAST-TRAK, fast and easier.


Hi Folks,today I wanna point out this amazing penetration testing tool. As you know doing penetration testing could be very long and very stressful especially if you need to replace the same actions to many penetrations points. For this reason fastrak developers decided to automatize the entire process. Here we go, a high impact logo and a nice web site for fastrackThe introduction directly from web site.For those of you new to Fast-Track, Fast-Track is a python based open-source project aimed at helping Penetration Testers in an effort to identify, exploit, and further penetrate a network. Fast-Track was originally conceived when I was on a penetration test and found that there was generally a lack of tools or automation in certain attacks that were normally extremely advanced and time consuming. In an effort to reproduce some of my advanced attacks and propagate it down to my team at SecureState, I ended up writing Fast-Track for the public. Many of the issues Fast-Track exploits are due to improper sanitizing of client-side data within web applications, patch management, or lack of hardening techniques. All of these are relatively simple to fix if you know what to look for, but as penetration testers are extremely common findings for us. Fast-Track arms the penetration tester with advanced attacks that in most cases have never been performed before. Sit back relax, crank open a can of jolt cola and enjoy the ride. A really aggressive video showing how it works.Fast-Track SQLPwnage from David Kennedy on Vimeo.Fast-Track comes with three different modes, interactive/menu mode, command line, and web front-end.The Interactive mode is a menu based mode that allows you to enter commands and receive output based on the commands executed. To use fast-track interactive mode type:python fast-track.py -iCommand line mode allows you to use the command line interface to execute attacks, this is always useful for scripting. To use fast-track command line mode type:python fast-track.py -cThe web GUI gives you an interactive graphical interface when interacting with Fast-Track. To use fast-track web front-end mode type:python fast-track.py -g or python ftgui.pyYou can also type python fast-track.py 99999 (or whatever port number you want) to use an alternate port then 44444.Once Fast-Track launches, go to your web browser and type localhost:44444


