
Notorious Hacking Groups in mid 2016




It happens from time to time people asking me what are the most "notorious hacking groups". On February 2015 I wrote a little bit on most notorious group in 2015 (here) but today things changed a little bit. It's hard to answer to such a question since we need a strong definition of "notorious", do we mean the most known groups ever ? Or do we mean the most successful groups ? Or, again, the ones who attack few big organisations or the ones who attacks successfully millions of user PCs ? OK, we might go forth forever on that, so I'll give my personal point of view (which is debatable) based on my findings and on my daily activities.



The following list is not complete at all and it never will be, but if you want to start from scratch to looks for "notorious" group here a nice start:



Pawn Storm,  (Operation PawnStorm) is for sure one of the most interesting hacking group we might observe nowadays.

It is an active economic and political 
cyber espionage operation that targets a wide range of high-profile 
entities, from government institutions to media personalities. Its 
activities were first seen as far back as 2004, but recent developments 
have revealed more concrete details about the operation itself, 
including its origins and targets.

Regin. I've been writing about Regin (here) and at that time it was mainly considered an attack. Nowadays after several observable attacks we think it 's most a group of people who built sophisticated attaching tools.  

Regin, first identified in 2008, is a 
highly complex threat used by the APT group for large-scale data 
collection and intelligence-gathering campaigns. The development and 
operation of this threat would have required a significant investment of
 time and resources. Threats of this nature are rare and the discovery 
of Regin serves to highlight how significant investments continue to be 
made into the development of tools for use in intelligence-gathering. 
Many components of the Regin tools remain undiscovered, and additional 
functionality and versions may exist.


Emissary Panda. Discovered in 2015 but active since 2013 E.Panda is a Chinese Hacking group targeting US-Military and US-Defense infrastructures as well as critical infrastructures in USA. The attackers used contractors Managers and Directors to exfiltrate classified information from secret projects.

Potato Group. The group behind the most known "Operation Potato Express" (here). The group mostly operates targeting Russia, Belarus and Ukraine Govs and news agencies. The attacks were used even to spy members of MMM, a Ponzi scheme company popular in Russia

The attacks conducted using the Win32/Potao malware family span the past 5 years, the first detections dating back to 2011. The attackers are, however, still very active, with the most recent infiltration attempts detected by ESET in July 2015.

Waterbug.  Discovered and described by Symantec (here) Waterbub was operating since 2005.


Waterbug is likely a state-sponsored group which uses an attack network 
(“Venom”) that consists of 84 compromised domains (websites). The 
watering-hole websites used by the Waterbug group are located in many 
different countries. The greatest number of compromised websites are 
found in France (19%), Germany (17%), Romania (17%), and Spain (13%).
DragonFly. Discovered and firstly mitigated by Symantec (here) the group mainly attacks Energy Suppliers:

Dragonfly, likely a group of hackers 
operating out of Eastern Europe since 2011, bears the hallmarks of a 
state-sponsored operation. Analysis of the compilation timestamps on the
 malware used by the attackers indicate that the group mostly worked 
between Monday and Friday, with activity mainly concentrated in a 
nine-hour period that corresponded to a 9am to 6pm working day in the 
UTC +4 time zone.
Sandworm. Known for its most famous (so far) APT called BlackEnergy (here). Built from Russia against Ukraine during the political conflict Sandworm is a skilled group specialised in SandBox evasion tricks and documents (OLE) worms.

GovRat. Group behind several Governmental attacks and Discoverd and Mitigated by infoArmor (here)

Several English-speaking developers 
began creating custom malware and using it as a group in 2015. GovRAT is
 the name they gave the malware – which is used primarily for cyber 
espionage, and is also the code name of the group, the hackers using it 
for infections. 

Among these groups plenty of famous smallest and biggest groups are out there, some of there are notorious as well while some other are stille hidden, so please consider that list incomplete and based on personal experiences and not on scientific review process.



