
Series B Funding Round Validates Morphisec’s Groundbreaking Cybersecurity Technology

Posted by
Ronen Yehoshua on February 19, 2018 at 10:29 AM
                           

Find me on:

Facebook 
LinkedIn
Twitter 





When we founded Morphisec in 2014, it arose from the observation that too many endpoint protection solutions followed the same old paradigm, even if they were using more technologically sophisticated methods. We believed a fundamentally new approach was needed, one that looked from the point of view of the attacker.
We also firmly believed that cybersecurity should enable business, not hinder operations or interfere with business goals.
From these two pillars, we built our first product. Morphisec Endpoint Threat Prevention was launched in February 2016 and now, only two years later, our vision has been more than validated. Last year, Morphisec saw explosive customer adoption rates and business growth. Company 2017 milestones included:
It’s clear that Morphisec is fulfilling an important need in the endpoint security field and investors agree. We are pleased to announce today that Morphisec has completed a $12 million Series B financing round. The round features new investor Orange Digital Ventures, the investment arm of Orange Telecom, as well as existing Morphisec investors Jerusalem Venture Partners, GE and Deutsche Telekom Capital Partners.  Additional investors in Morphisec include OurCrowd, La Maison and Portage Partners.
With this round of funding, we are well-placed to continue our exponential growth trajectory.  We continue to grow our customer list, our partner ecosystem and our headcount so we can deliver the most innovative technology advancements in a powerful and simple solution that prevents advanced threats and exploits that other endpoint products cannot.
Morphisec is the only solution that can protect during major operating system patching gaps, like those created by the Spectre and Meltdown vulnerabilities, against zero-day attacks, fileless malware and more. All while providing significant operational and business benefits, including continuity across patch cycles, no need for updates, zero false positives and no performance degradation.
But this funding round is not just a validation of our solution. Investors place their trust in a company, not a technology. I am proud to work with the many smart, creative and dedicated people that have brought Morphisec to the stage it is at, poised to become an essential part of every company’s security and IT operation. Thank you for all your hard work.
Finally but importantly, I’d like to thank our customers for their continued support and for the confidence that you have placed in us. We are committed above all to keeping you and your businesses safe.
Read the offical press release here.
