
Morphisec Opens New Corporate Offices

Posted by
Shelley Leveson on July 17, 2018 at 2:43 PM
                           

Find me on:

LinkedIn





Morphisec officially opened its new corporate headquarters in the Gav-Yam Negev Advanced Technologies Park in Beer Sheva, Israel. Known as Israel’s leading cybersecurity technology center of innovation, the park is a collaborative endeavor of Ben Gurion University, the city of Beer-Sheva, and real estate developer KUD International. It brings together academia, advanced research, local government, business entrepreneurship and the global technology industry.
“This move marks an enormous milestone for Morphisec, its employees, customers and partners, who will all benefit from the opportunities our new home brings. The explosive demand for our Endpoint Threat Prevention platform has accelerated company growth in revenue and in headcount,” said Morphisec CEO Ronen Yehoshua. “The new facility gives us the space to support continued growth and innovation, and is strategically located close to a remarkable cybersecurity talent pool, with Ben Gurion University and the new IDF Technology Campus as neighbors.”

Award winning double-helix pedestrian bridge connecting the Technology Park, Ben Gurion University and the high-speed rail station.
Since the beginning of 2018, the company’s headcount has grown by over 30% and is projected to continue at an accelerated rate.
The new facility is designed to accommodate the company’s rapid growth while keeping the needs of employees at top of mind. The new offices are a mix of personal, group and open workspaces that encourage innovation and collaboration as well as support different working styles. In a nod to its location, literally in a desert, rooms sport names such as Negev, Oasis and even Camel. Other features include informal sitting areas, a large open-air balcony and inspiring quotes, contributed by team members, splashed across walls. “This place belongs to everybody at Morphisec, and we want to make sure the environment reflects that,” said Yehoshua.

 One of several informal group areas in Morphisec's new headquarters.
