
Morphisec Makes the Cool Crowd

Posted by
Ronen Yehoshua on May 17, 2016 at 1:02 PM
                           

Find me on:

Facebook 
LinkedIn
Twitter 





Of course we know that Morphisec is a cool company, with a terrific team of people, working on the coolest security product. Well now our coolness is official: Gartner, the leading tech analyst group, selected Morphisec as a Cool Vendor for 2016.
The Cool Vendor reports are an annual series published by Gartner, highly anticipated in the tech world for their close scrutiny of new technologies and companies. (This blog post talks about Gartner’s selection process.) We’re honored to be among those elite few included. I’d like to thank Gartner, and especially Lawrence Pingree and the other experts involved, for their deep analysis of Morphisec and the cyber security industry in general.
I fully agree with their remarks that “the shortfalls of established security technologies along with the mounting pressure coming from sophisticated attackers is creating opportunities for innovative startups in the areas of security intelligence and detection of advanced targeted attacks.”[1] I see the selection of Morphisec as a Cool Vendor as yet another indication of the importance of prevention to the future of endpoint protection. Companies should take it as a signal to seriously consider moving away from the detection and response paradigm to more proactive prevention.
So what exactly makes Morphisec cool? I believe it's because we are doing something truly innovative and disruptive in endpoint security: We are re-establishing market confidence in the real prevention of advanced attacks. Morphisec’s Moving Target Defense technology rewrites the rules. It protects companies from zero-day, one-day and other exploit-based threats without relying on the detection of threat signatures or suspicious behaviors and prevents 100% of web-borne threats. I won’t go into the how, you can read about it here, but the result is that attacks are instantaneously blocked, neutralized and then identified.
Of course in the end, coolness is in the eye of the beholder. As a kid, being cool meant 501s, Adidas and an attitude problem. Thankfully our definition of cool has grown up to value innovation, substance and dedication. Welcome Morphisec to the cool crowd.
 hbspt.cta.load(1534169, '34463369-1964-4531-a225-d26b35dbb76e', {}); 
Disclaimer: Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner's research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
[1] Gartner, “Cool Vendors in Security for Technology and Service Providers, 2016” by Ruggero Contu, Lawrence Pingree, Eric Ahlm
