
Cybertech Tel Aviv: Join Us to Regain Faith in Endpoint Threat Prevention

Posted by
Morphisec Team on January 22, 2016 at 10:24 AM
                           

Find me on:

LinkedIn
Twitter 




 
At the upcoming Cybertech Tel Aviv (January 26-27) – the most significant cyber-technology exhibition outside of the U.S. – Morphisec will be showcasing the ultimate, most efficient endpoint threat prevention solution.
Our investor, JVP, is known to invest in many innovative cyber security startups, and as a result will be hosting a Pavilion at the upcoming Cybertech conference, and we were pleased to be invited to participate. In the JVP pavilion, we will be demonstrating our Endpoint Threat Prevention Solution, which helps organizations close security gaps with Moving Target Defense, shielding them from the most advanced cyber-attacks using a revolutionary, innovative and proactive approach.
We would love to meet you at Cybertech 2016 to discuss your security pain points and how we can help you. To pre-schedule a meeting or receive our Solution Brief in advance please contact us at info@morphisec.com.
REVOLUTIONIZING ATTACK PREVENTION
Morphisec’s Endpoint Threat Prevention was created to fundamentally change the way companies defend themselves against cyber threats.
We identified two key issues in current security approaches. First, companies are ill-prepared to face new cyber-attacks with legacy solutions. Cyber attackers are continuously deploying new, intense and dynamic techniques that evade current defense systems. Worse yet, these solutions are prone to false positives, causing vast amounts of wasted time on investigating so-called hacks and exploits that didn’t happen.
The second challenge is the constant need to manage security patches, which causes a significant operational and financial burden on companies. Moreover, the time it takes to deploy patches enhances the windows of opportunity for cyber attackers.
Morphisec provides a future-proof solution that stops advanced attacks at the moment of infiltration at your endpoints, before any damage can be done, with little to no false positives.
ENTER MORPHISEC MOVING TARGET DEFENSE
Our technology effectively conceals vulnerabilities in applications, web browsers and operating systems from attackers. Using a polymorphic engine, it randomly morphs the application runtime environment at load time, making the memory space unpredictable to attackers. The end result is that attack targets are impossible to locate, identify or penetrate, stopping attackers at the first attempt.
Morphisec’s Endpoint Threat Prevention uses Protector at each endpoint, a lightweight 1 MB DLL, with no runtime component and zero performance impact. Protector can be installed on the fly, without rebooting or complex setup.
About Cybertech Tel Aviv Cybertech Tel Aviv brings together around 8,700 attendees, more than 100 speakers and over 170 exhibitors. It is the premier opportunity to learn about the latest innovations in cyber and network with industry leaders. While you’re there, come learn more about Morphisec’s Endpoint Threat Prevention; visit us at the JVP Pavilion (under the umbrella of Cyberspark), Tel Aviv Exhibition Center, Pavilion 2, January 26 and 27, 2016.
To arrange a meeting or demo, please contact us at info@morphisec.com.
