
Setting Up NTR with Cuckoo


By Melissa Augustine.


The guys over at Advanced Malware Protection (AMP) put out an awesome blog post about integrating Network Threat Response (NTR) with the Cuckoo Sandbox  a little while ago and I really liked the idea so I wanted to implement it for myself. 

Background
If you're unfamiliar with the two tools, here is a quick breakdown: 
NTR - A network analysis tool which uses multiple vectors in determining potential maliciousness. It not only uses signatures and looks for shell code, but it also does IP/domain reputation analysis as well as AV scanning of files observed on the wire. You can get a copy of a free vmware image to try out here. The VM allows you to upload pcaps for analysis, while the pay-for version allow you to set up sensors which then feed into NTR. 
Cuckoo - A sandbox for analyzing malware. Produces a lovely report with screenshots (if the right plugin is installed), network activity, some static analysis (if an exe), behavior analysis, and static tree. 

When AMP posted that blog I thought: "How awesome would this be? -  'You are analyzing a PCAP with NTR, it flags a potentially malicious file -- now you can push to Cuckoo via shared folders and it will automatically be submitted for analysis... all while still analyzing the PCAP! Nice'" 

Setup NotesBetween the AMP blog post and the Cuckoo documentation you should have most of the installation covered, but I did run into a handful of problems. Here's the process and some of what was left out:


Download and set up the NTR Virtual Machine
Create an Ubuntu VM using the installation ISO
Within the Ubuntu VM, set up and install VirtualBox.
The thing to remember with this is when you create a user and add them vboxuser group, you HAVE to log off and log back on for it to take affect. Restarting (apparently) does not fix it.
Within the Ubuntu VM, install and set up a Windows VM (you'll need the installation media for this). 
Install any supporting applications within the Windows VM (e.g. You may need a PDF viewer if you're using a malicious PDF)
When creating the shared folders for file transfers, you'll first need to install Virtual Box's "Guest Additions" first.

At this point, you're ready to go through AMP's blog post. Some notes:
Samba Configuration: There was some disconnect on the AMP blog post in regards to setting samba up, so I took a simpler method and simply right-clicked the folders from within X Windows and used the sharing option. I did run across one tiny error, but the error itself contained the solution: 


The watcher.rb script had a small type-o, change:
IO.popen("./run-sample.sh /opt/ntr/samples/#{ev.name}")

to

IO.popen("./run-sample.sh /opt/ntr/samples/#{event.name}")

run-sample.sh needs the the directory which contains cuckoo.py defined. If you do not have cuckoo.py in /opt/cuckoo you'll need to change the variable in the script or move it there 
watcher.rb also needs executable rights on run-sample.sh. If you don't have it appropriately set, you'll get an error saying watcher.rb can't find run-sample.sh. To set:

chmod +x run-sample.sh


In NTR, I had to specify my workgroup as well to mount the cuckoo share, the mount command ended up being:

sudo mount -t cifs -o username=RainbowBrite,password=Starl1ght,domain=WORKGROUP //192.168.1.96/samples /mnt/cuckoo


After some blood, sweat, and coffee... this is the final result you hope to achieve (make sure you have all the scripts running and folders mounted!) 


Exporting in ActionI made this quick video to demonstrate exporting to Cuckoo:




