
Huge Botnet Attacking Italian Companies




On January 18 a colleague of mine (Luca) called me telling a malicious email was targeting Italian companies. This is the beginning of our new analysis adventure that Luca and I run together.



The email pretended to be sent by "Ministero dell' Economia e delle Finanze" the Italian Department of Treasury  and it had a smart subjects such as:

Codici Tributo Acconti
F24 Acconti-Codice Tributo 4034



The attacker knows very well the Italian Fiscal Year since those modules are very popular from company administration employees at that time. The attacker would probably exploit this attack path reaching out as many companies as possible. The email address was not coming from the "Ministero dell' economia e delle Finanze" at all, it was coming from the following addresses:

 info@amber-kate.com 
info@fallriverproductions.com



The email looks like :




Malicious eMail




A simple link pointing to a high reputation domain was popping out the default browser and downloading the following Javascript file. The high level of obfuscation and the way the content was provided was so suspicious to be worth to follow the analysis.




Infection: Stage 1 Obfuscated




After a deobfuscation phase the javascript looked much more easy te be read from a human side.




Infection: Stage 1 Clear Text


A romantic "drop and execute" section was happening. A GET connection to 239outdoors.com/themes5.php was dropping a file named 1t.exe and later on the same script was able to execute the dropped file.  The file 1t.exe was running on the victim machine contacting the Command and Control waiting for further commands.



The new sample looks like GootKit, a weaponized version of Banker Malware.  The malware installs itself and contacts Command and Control asking "what to do" and sending the "stolen credentials" directly to the Command and Control server. Details on IPs, Persistencies and so on, is provided in the IoC section, but todays we wont describe GootKit, we got access to the Dropping site !  



We want to figure out if we might help victims to deactivate the malicious botnet by providing as much as possible details without focusing on reverse the Malware per se since appears to be known. 



By getting further analyzing the dropping web site we immediately understood that the same URL was dropping another threat. The parallel threat the dropping website was spreading to the world was called "Nuovo Documento 2008" and it was a .bat file as follows.




New Threat Stage 1




That executable .bat file on a first stage opens up a browser pointing to a legitimate image but later on it uses an notorious technique called "certutil for delivery of file" to drop and execute an another file. This technique is well described here  by carnal0wnage. Basically the attacker uses the certutil.exe program do download a Base64 encoded payload, to decoded it and to run it. This technique is very silent since the User-Agent of certutils.exe is not suspicious because it needs to connect outside the company networks to check certificates, so not much IPS rules on it. The dropped file name unslss.exe appears to be very close to the previous analyzed one (1t.exe) it contacts the same C&C and it behaves in the similar way.   But again we wont focus on reverse such a malware but rather we wont be able to reach the highest number of IoC to protect as much as possible the victims. By analyzing the Dropping website we founded that a significative number of connections had additional referrers, so we decided to focus our attention on how many DNS were pointing to such a domain. We did it and the result was quite impressive (please see the Dropping URLS IoC Section). 



Following the research on the dropping website we found an interesting log within all the connection coming from possible victims. We collected that log, and we built the following possible infection list (possible Victims). We wont publish the Victims IP addresses but if you can prove you are legitimated by your company to ask that logs we can give you (for free, of course)  the IP addresses we've found related to your company. Please contact cert@yoroi.company. A detailed list of possible infected networks follows. 



Possible Victims:










ACI informatica s.p.a.



AGOS-AS
AGSM Verona Spa
ASGARR Consortium GARR
Acantho S.p.a
Alfanews S.r.l.
Ambrogio s.r.l.
Asco TLC S.p.A.
Autostrade-as
BT Italia
BT Italia S.p.A.
Banca Monte Dei Paschi Di Siena S.P.A.
Brennercom S.p.A.
COLT Technology Services Group Limited
Camera dei deputati
Cesena Net srl
Clouditalia Telecomunicazioni S.p.A.
Comune Di Brescia
Comune di Bologna
Consortium GARR
Consorzio per il Sistema Informativo
Costacrociere-as
Duebite-as
E4A s.r.l.
Energente S.r.l.
FASTNET SpA
FASTWEB SPA
FINECO Banca del Gruppo Unicredit
Fastweb
Forcepoint Cloud Ltd
GenyCommunications
Global Com Basilicata s.r.l.
H3G Italy
Hynet S.R.L.
IBSNAZ
ICT Valle Umbra s.r.l.
InAsset S.r.l.
InfoCamere SCpA
Infracom Italia S.p.A.
Inrete s.r.l
Insiel- Informatica per il sistema degli enti loca
Integrys.it di Stefania Peragna impresa individual
Intred S.p.A.
KPNQWest Italia S.p.a.
LEPIDA
Lepida S.p.A.
Liguria Digitale S.C.p.A.
Linea Com S R L
Linkem spa
Lombardia Informatica S.p.A.
Mandarin S.p.A.
Mc-link SpA
Metrolink S.R.L.
Ministero dell'Interno
Mnet srl
NGI SpA
Nemo S.r.l.
Nordcom S.p.a.
Officine Informatiche Srl
Progetto Evo S.r.l.
Provincia di Reggio nell'Emilia
Qcom spa
Raiffeisen OnLine GmbH
Regione Basilicata
Regione Toscana
Regione Veneto
STI ADSL
Sardegnait-as
Societa' Gestione Servizi Bp S.p.A.
TELEX S.r.l.
TWT S.p.A.
Telecom Italia
Terra S.p.a.
Time-net S.r.l.
Tiscali SpA
Trenitalia SpA
Trentino Network S.r.l.
Universita' degli Studi di Milano
Venis S.p.A.
Videotime SPA
Vodafone Group Services GmbH
Vodafone Italia DSL
Vodafone Omnitel B.V.
Vodafone Omnitel N.v.
WIIT S.p.A.
Welcome Italia S.p.A
Wind Telecomunicazioni
Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA


Following the found IoC provided by the long "analysis journey". I managed this analysis over the night, so I am sure there would be some imprecisions, but I preferred to speed up the entire analysis process to give the opportunity to block such infamous threat as soon as possible.



Hope it helps the community.

Original Early Warning (Italian): Yoroi Early Warning








IoC:






eMail:

 info@amber-kate.com 
info@fallriverproductions.com

Dropping URLS:


185.61.152.71
239outdoors.com
bentlabel.com
cdvdautomator.com
cloudblueprintprogram.com
cnchalftone.com
comedyyall.com
conticellolaw.com
couplesdoingbusiness.com
dvoper.com
equinnex.com
ericandchrissy.com
evelynleekley.com
expungementstennessee.com
flaveme.com
grkisland.com
healingfoodconsulting.com
hertzsynergy.com
hollywoodisruption.com
home-sphere.com
integrativenutritiontherapy.com
jdkanyuk.com
kineloveclips.com
kylesinger.com
legionchristmas.com
menshoesonlinestore.com
microtiasurgery.com
movielotbar.com
muiienweg.com
niarhoslondon.com
opsantorinitours.com
progunjobs.com
rocketpak.com
scottishwindowsolutions.com
silkygames.com
snapshotsandwhatnots.com
snotterkind.com
solespin.com
strangerthanchristmas.com
synchronr.com
taramadden.com
terento.website
theargumint.com
thegildedwren.com
thejourneytogodsheart.com
thesaltybody.com
topsantorinitours.com
tuftandneedles.com
videospanishlessons.com
vovachka.com
wall-runners.com
war-arena.com
www.scottishwindowsolutions.com
z1logistics.com
zayantetinyhomes.com
zefeed.com


Command and Controls


185.44.105.97 
ns15.dreamsinthesun.com
bdi2.nomadicdecorator.com
elis.k9redemptionrescue.com
api.hailstorm360.com
cerera.survivalbid.com
mark.k9redemptionrescue.org
nsc.dayswithsunrays.com
at.moonbeammagic.com
ssl.vci-cfo.com
sip3.propertiesandprojects.com
host1.jodiray.com
note.lawrencechoy.com
note.lawrencechoy.com:80
185.44.105.97:80/200
note.lawrencechoy.com:80

Hashes


63d6927881d4978da4e162c17d82e9c009d0a93e
7ea33f51b6c4aa54beee7fd878886339c22d2232
8cae0dc9255978a35cfd8db64cbe80001400de9b
839ff9f4c3980ac67d4cbef296520ee364a0911f
8cae0dc9255978a35cfd8db64cbe80001400de9b










UPDATE 1:

Many AV and NGFirewall Companies contacted me and they updated "signatures", so probably on from now everybody having such a products should be protected.

UPDATE 2: 

Victims are still growing UP ! 


 Asco TLC S.p.A.
 ASGARR Consortium GARR
 Bancalombarda
 B.B.Bell SPA
 Brennercom S.p.A.
 BrianTel SRL
 Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche
 Elsynet S.r.l.
 Fastcon-as
 Informatica System S.r.l.
 Inrete s.r.l
 IPERV Internet Per Il Veneto
 I.S.I.D.E. S.p.A.
 Mc-link SpA
 Nemo S.r.l.
 NTRNET SRL
 Regione Autonoma Friuli Venezia Giulia
 Tiscali SpA
 UmbriaNet
 Universita' degli Studi di Palermo
 AGOS-AS
 Comune di Bologna
 ENEA - Agenzia nazionale per le nuove tecnologie
 Intred S.p.A.
 Iren Energia S.p.a
 Linkem spa
 NGI SpA
 Phoenix Informatica Bancaria S.p.A.
 Telemar s.p.a.
 TWT S.p.A.
 Wiplanet.it
 COLT Technology Services Group Limited
 Consortium GARR
 H3G Italy
 Banca Monte Dei Paschi Di Siena S.P.A.
 BT Italia S.p.A.
 Infracom Italia S.p.A.
 KPNQWest Italia S.p.a.
 Vodafone Omnitel B.V.
 Liguria Digitale S.C.p.A.
 Regione Toscana
 Welcome Italia S.p.A
 Wind Telecomunicazioni
 Lepida S.p.A.
 Vodafone Italia DSL
 Fastweb
 Telecom Italia
  









