Threat Brief: Second Wave of Shamoon 2 Attacks Reveal Possible New Tactic

Palo Alto Networks Unit 42 threat intelligence team has just released new research that has uncovered a previously unknown second wave of Shamoon 2 attacks: Second Wave of Shamoon 2 Attacks Identified
Based on our analysis, these attacks were timed to occur on November 29, 2016, twelve days after the initial Shamoon 2 attacks that we wrote about previously.
Like the initial Shamoon 2 attacks, this second wave of Shamoon 2 attacks utilize the Disttrack wiper malware. Disttrack is optimized to destroy systems by targeting their hard drives and to spread as widely as possible throughout a network it’s infiltrated. And once again, the Disttrack malware was configured to operate without any command and control (C2) servers, essentially optimized for a one-way mission of data destruction.
But this second wave of Shamoon 2 attacks show evidence of potential new tactic. Unit 42 analysis shows that the latest sample contains credentials for virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI) solutions, such as Huawei’s FusionCloud. VDI solutions can provide protection against a destructive malware like Disttrack through the ability to load snapshots of wiped systems to recover from a wiper attack. The presence of these credentials in the sample may suggest that attackers intended to increase the impact of their attack by not only wiping systems but also carrying out destructive activities against the VDI deployment, as well as any snapshots.
In essence, a manual destructive attack against the VDI deployment and snapshots coupled with the destructive attack by the malware could destroy an organizations’ systems and primary line of backup against such an attack.
The possible targeting of VDI solutions with legitimate credentials (either stolen or default) represents an escalation in tactics not only in this specific attack but other future attacks. Security teams and administrators should be aware of and take immediate steps to evaluate this development and consider adding additional safeguards to protect credentials related to their VDI deployment.
Full technical details including associated indicators of compromise (IOCs) that can be used for more detailed analysis and protection, can be found the full report.
Palo Alto Networks customers are protected from the Disttrack payload used in this attack:

WildFire properly classifies Disttrack samples as malicious
Threat protection AV signature of Virus/Win32.WGeneric.ktoto detects the new payload.

AutoFocus customers can monitor Disttrack activity using the Disttrack tag

