Palo Alto Networks News of the Week – July 25

Here’s a roundup of this week’s top Palo Alto Networks news.
 
 
We are happy to officially introduce our new threat intelligence team, Unit 42, and the release of its first research paper, 419 Evolution.

Check out some of the great global coverage from this announcement:
US:

CIO
CSO
Dark Reading
Help Net Security
NBC News
New York Times
PC Magazine
Politico
SC Magazine
SecurityWeek
Techlicious

Brazil:

BitMag
Canal Tech
Decision Report/Risk Report
Convergência Digital
IP News

Australia:

Australia Security Magazine

EMEA:

Bahrain Business News
Computer Business Review (CBR)
Focus Online
Global Security Mag
Golem.de
Ictmagazine.nl
InfoSecurity Magazine
International Business Times (UK edition)
IT Administrator
Marqit.nl
Mittelstand Café
The Register
Yahoo News UK

APAC:

Enterprise Innovation
Quamnet
Upgrade Magazine

Unit 42 is part of a big Palo Alto Networks presence at Black Hat USA 2014, which kicks off in just over a week. You can see full details of where to find us at Black Hat here, and Unit 42 members will be available in our booth and throughout the conference to take your questions and introduce you to our research and intelligence process.

 
In just a few more weeks we’ll be able to share registration details for Ignite 2015! In the meantime, revisit Mark McLaughlin’s Ignite 2014 keynote — or perhaps to check it out for the first time if you couldn’t join us in Vegas this year.
 
Kevin Magee talks about how to change the conversation with the C-suite from an IT discussion, where security is a cost to the business, into a discussion of safely enabling innovation by investing in security. This is the key to unlocking the budgets you need.
Tim Treat explains exactly what we mean when we describe true next-generation endpoint protection.
Ever wondered what you can do to help your employees understand that their everyday behavior might contribute significantly to protecting their enterprise against attacks? Isabelle Dumont helps answer this question.
There’s still one more week to enter the Picture It contest for July! We’ve rounded up a few “honorable mentions” and previous winner entries in case you need some creative ideas.

 
Access our whitepaper for to find out how you can balance the need to accelerate the adoption of new technologies along with the simultaneous mandate for better, more comprehensive security and to learn more about cybersecurity imperatives for the financial services industry.
Here are upcoming events around the world that you should know about:
Palo Alto Networks: Live Demo

When: July 30, 2014 from 9:00 AM – 10:00 AM PST
Where: Online

Palo Alto Networks Evening [Italian]

When: August 4, 2014 from 4:30 PM – 8:00 PM CET
Where: Brianza

Black Hat USA 2014

When: August 6-7, 2014 from 10:00 AM – 7:00 PM PST
Where: Las Vegas, NV

Palo Alto Networks: Live Demo

When: August 6, 2014 from 9:00 AM – 10:00 AM PST
Where: Online

Secure Your Network – Practical Advice from Market Leaders

When: August 7, 2014 from 5:30 PM – 7:30 PM EST
Where: Lynnfield, MA


