5 Phases of the Threat Intelligence Lifecycle
By RFSID on January 3, 2018
Facts in the intelligence community have a limited shelf life. Threat intelligence is nearly always contextual and temporal: Threats come at a definite time and place, attacking specific vulnerabilities in particular systems. To develop effective threat intelligence, it is essential that you identify the elements — beyond mere data — that actually comprise it, and understand how the intelligence lifecycle unfolds.
Intelligence is the product of a process that includes collecting data, analyzing it, and viewing it in context, and it generally includes predictions of future behavior and recommended courses of action. Thus, even today, when automated systems can collect and parse data far faster than any team of people, the human element remains essential to make sense of that data by providing context and direction.
In its recent market guide of threat intelligence products and services, the technology research company Gartner defines threat intelligence as “evidence-based knowledge — including context, mechanisms, indicators, implications, and action-oriented advice — about an existing or emerging hazard to IT or information assets.” The purpose of threat intelligence is ultimately to inform decisions about how to respond to those hazards.
The intelligence lifecycle is a process first developed by the CIA, following five steps: direction, collection, processing, analysis and production, and dissemination. The completion of a cycle is followed by feedback and assessment of the last cycle’s success or failure, which is then iterated upon.
The goal of any threat intelligence product or service is to provide knowledge about and recommend solutions to information security threats. In broad terms, this means identifying attackers and understanding their motivations, methods, and characteristics.
Intelligence related to cyber threats in particular are generally identified from two categories of sources: technical sources, like network traffic, files retrieved from malware archives, and databases both public and private; and human sources, through infiltrating hacker and fraud groups, social media chatter, and by the sharing of information across other industry groups or law enforcement agencies. The automated systems offered by some threat intelligence products and services are efficient at gathering data from technical sources, but evaluating that data or the information drawn from human sources will always require a human touch to be effective. As the sheer volume of technical data grows day by day, it becomes increasingly difficult to sort the wheat from the chaff without some form of analysis.
The threat intelligence lifecycle Gartner defines for cybersecurity therefore closely resembles its CIA parent, but some of the specifics vary or take place in digital spaces rather than physical ones:
The author Robert Penn Warren once wrote that “reality is not a function of the event as event, but of the relationship of that event to past, and future events.” Visualizing intelligence as having a lifecycle places an emphasis on process over product and context over raw information. Threats in this industry are exceptionally diverse, coming and going at blistering speeds. To have operational resilience, the cybersecurity team in any organization must work to refine its processes and learn how to respond quickly, flexibly, and intelligently to any threat.
To learn more about popular use cases for threat intelligence, as well as a comparison of vendor capabilities, download a complimentary copy of Gartner’s “Market Guide for Security Threat Intelligence Products and Services.”
