​Keep It on the Low: Dark Liquor, Hand Rolled Cigars and Sultry Burlesque at Black Hat 2015
RiskIQ will be out in force once again at this year’s Black Hat Conference in Las Vegas, Nevada (Aug 4th-7th, 2015). Once again the team will be throwing our now infamous Dark Liquor Party. Last year was a huge success and this year we expect it to be even better with barrel-aged whiskeys, hand-rolled cigars, and a sultry burlesque show at a secret location in Mandalay Bay (Shhhhh!).
Join executives, thought leaders, practitioners and other security folks from around the industry for a fun time and a great networking opportunity. The party starts at 9pm on Tuesday, August 4th. The location is classified. RSVP here and reserve your spot ASAP—space is limited.
At Black Hat’s business hall, visit us at booth #265 where we will be offering up demos and some other fun stuff…including flip flops, t-shirts, and shots. Yes, shots. At 5:30pm on Wednesday, we will be serving up your favorite libations in custom shot glasses, so stop by and have a shot on us.
Schedule a time today to reserve your Digital Footprint assessment at the RiskIQ booth to help you determine how big your organization’s digital footprint really is. Watch RiskIQ experts discover new digital assets belonging to your org. Learn how easy it is to obtain a dynamic, recursively updating system of record for your internal and third-party created digital assets with RiskIQ inventory technology.
“Having an automated inventory will enable instant response to incidents such as Heartbleed and Shellshock…It took NCCIC three weeks to identify 265 instances across dozens of departments…(our goal) is to see the NCCIC move to an even higher and better level.”
-Jeh Johnson, Secretary of Homeland Security, April 21, 2015
Be prepared to be blown away, as some RiskIQ customers have found hundreds to thousands of previously unknown apps, sites, mobile apps, and domains, created by Shadow IT, rogue third-party developers, or inherited via past mergers and acquisitions. Learn how you can wrangle control of these assets before threat actors can turn them against your company, customers, and employees.
 
