RiskIQ’s Q4 2017 Phishing Roundup and 2017 Recap: Unique Domains Fall, Social Media Targets Rise
Phishing actors are always innovating and creating new methods to lure victims into gaining access to their financial information, PII, and user accounts. Understanding the latest phishing techniques and threat actor tendencies helps us position our customers to stay one step ahead of phishing threats targeting their organizations.
In the Q4 2017 Phishing Roundup, we’ll detail the trends in phishing activity as observed by RiskIQ over Q4 of 2017, drawing upon data used in the Q3 Report for comparisons and recapping trends we’ve seen over the entirety of 2017.  The data in this report, which is comprised of internally blacklisted resources—unique phishing URLs in this case—will focus on:
Overall, RiskIQ observed 27,285 uniquely blacklisted phishing—domains, down 2% from Q3, targeting a total of 259 unique brands, down 7%. However, the most significant trend to surface in Q4 was a stark increase in phishing campaigns leveraging social media platforms, a trend that accounted for 20% of the top-ten most phished brands including the overall most-phished brand. 
This new focus on social media by threat actors is significant because it represents a pivot in tactics between Q3 and Q4 toward social media platforms and away from cloud service providers, which represented 10% of targets in our previous report. Financial institutions are almost always the target of the highest volume of attacks, but social media is an interesting new addition to the top-target list. 
There are several potential reasons why social media is drawing more attention from threat actors. For one, the growth in popularity of financial integrations within social media platforms that, for example, give users the ability to send and receive money, can make for an easy payday. There’s also the possibility of using sensitive information from posts, messages, and profiles that can be used as lures in social engineering attacks.
The full breakdown of the most phished brands is as follows: 
 
 
Our Q4 registrar data, except for one outlier, showed the same top-five players (although in a different order), which have clearly become tried and true tools for phishers. The hosting provider data from Q3 to Q4, however, showed a significant discrepancy, making it impossible to speculate on any potential trends. 
 
Overall detections dropped off slightly in a few key areas during 2017, a decline that isn’t unusual as phishing tends to be very cyclical—the number of observed domains and targeted brands remained relatively close each quarter, but the number of unique URLs varied widely. 
Financial institution targets showed a general decline while social media targets showed a general increase, especially over the last quarter. Q4 was also the first quarter observed where the top targeted brand was a social media platform. While this is not a new phenomenon by any means, our data has never displayed its presence as prominently as Q4 of 2017. 
RiskIQ provides access to our unique phishing detection capabilities with our External Threats product line. Knowing your phishing risk is only half the battle; External Threats offers real-time monitoring and web enforcement capabilities to help you protect your organization’s assets with RiskIQ’s industry-leading security intelligence.
