PassiveTotal Update: Subtle Changes that Make a Big Difference
Also by Sunder Srinivasan
When we relaunched PassiveTotal with RiskIQ, we took the opportunity to re-implement the user experience (UX) of the site hoping to improve both information architecture and workflow. With the myriad of changes to the experience, we knew that we would have to do follow up work via interviews, testing, and analytics to determine if our changes were for the better. The feedback has been positive, but there were certain recurring themes from our interviews pointing at ways to improve the analyst experience.
Over the last few weeks, the RiskIQ team has been working on an updated header to address those issues. The update brings together many subtle changes, which we think analysts will find immensely valuable and improve the overall user experience.
So, What’s New?
Fig-1 Behold, the new search header
The new search header puts relevant data front and center. Analysts will now see First Seen and Last Seen dates along with Registrar and Registrant information for domains and ASN and Netblock associations for IP addresses. Where applicable, that data will be clickable to a richer detail set. Additionally, we added a drop-down next to the search term that contains your search history, which allows analysts to quickly recall what they were searching for or return to previous searches in an instant. You now have Search History at your fingertips.
Fig-2 Easily accessible search history
We also added tooltips to our tags showing users who and when a particular tag was added to the system. This small update brings additional context to analysts and allows for quick reference of analysis when conducting an investigation in the platform.
Fig-3 When an artifact was added, and by whom
We’ve also updated the Projects workflow. First, we replaced our beloved project icon (we’ll miss you Toasty!) with a file folder and used the space to show the number of private and public projects with which a given entity is associated. This allows analysts to quickly discern if other investigations are occurring on an artifact.
Fig-4 Even more context on artifacts
Clicking on the project folder provides a drop down highlighting the specific projects with which an artifact is associated. Additionally, each project listed in the dropdown provides a link to that project for additional context.
Fig-5 A quick reference for how many projects contain a certain artifact
All the changes outlined above allowed us to shorten the header by 120 pixels bringing all our data higher up on the screen. Analysts can now see more at a glance than before and our experience on pages requiring more interaction, like footprints, have a more seamless and fluid experience.
Fig-6 A more efficient use of space
Log in or sign up for RiskIQ Community today to see the new changes for yourself!
