Coming Soon to PassiveTotal: New Features, More Data, Better Investigations
Do you feel that there are too many disparate sources of information available? Having a hard time consolidating, correlating, and analyzing information? In today’s rapidly change threat environment, it’s hard to separate the signal from the noise. PassiveTotal, RiskIQ’s threat investigation tool, centralizes key internet data sets allowing analysts to cut through the noise and focus their investigations—and it’s about to get better. 
Threat actors are skilled at covering their tracks by masking and changing their infrastructure to avoid detection. For security teams tasked with uncovering these tracks, it’s critical to understand how disparate pieces of infrastructure are connected and have changed over time. That’s why PassiveTotal has become a central part of thousands of threat research arsenals. The platform provides critical context about events, along with advanced analytics to help surface connections that might otherwise go unnoticed.
PassiveTotal’s ability to intelligently connect disparate elements of attacker infrastructure such as passive DNS, WHOIS, SSL certificates, and site metadata helps researchers accurately understand, triage, and address security events. Over the past five years, PassiveTotal has accelerated and simplified threat investigations for analysts and organizations all over the world.
Fig-1 PassiveTotal is now even better equipped to save analysts time per threat investigation
The Next Generation of Threat Research
Adversaries are evolving, and so is our platform. Today, we announced the next generation of PassiveTotal. The redesigned platform will help analysts and researchers address a larger number of threats in less time, using fewer resources.
The upcoming launch will be the biggest update to the PassiveTotal platform since it was released more than five years ago. Starting with what will be most obvious, we redesigned the user interface and focused our efforts on supporting the workflows of today’s analyst and research community.
Building on the incredible use of the heatmap of activity around domains and IPs, we’ve built new visualizations and interactions around the entire history of our observed changes.
Fig-2 PassiveTotal’s enhanced interactive heatmap
RiskIQ’s ever-expanding data sets provide new context to adversaries’ infrastructure that’s not available anywhere else. With our upcoming update, we’re including deeper monitoring capabilities on our data sets, along with a completely new feature, PassiveTotal projects.
PassiveTotal projects help analysts organize and group related threat infrastructure components found during investigations. Projects can be shared with other teams, like your corporate brand or marketing teams, as well as with other analysts around the world. For proactive analysis, a monitor can be set on an entire project, so if there is a change to any facet of a project, the project owner will be alerted.
PassiveTotal continues to bring power to the analyst by allowing them to:
Predict
Investigate
Defend
Save time, outsmart your adversaries, and defend your internet-exposed digital assets from attackers. The next generation of threat research is coming soon. Sign up for PassiveTotal today and be among the first to get access to the new features and capabilities!
