RiskIQ Is on Ovum’s Radar. Digital Threat Management Should Be on Yours
When it comes to digital threat management, Ovum has put RiskIQ on the radar, featuring us in their “On the Radar” report for digital threat management. And as digital threats resulting in material loss continue to blindside businesses, consumers, and security organizations, digital threat management will soon be on your radar, too (if it’s not already). 
Can you afford to be a laggard?
Business has embraced web, social, and mobile channels to actively increase sales, boost the value of their brand, and engage with their customers, prospects, and employees. Likely, your IT and security staff are tasked with enabling this digital transformation by defending your organization against threat actors that are going digital in the same way—maturing their efforts on softer targets outside the firewall rather than more complex mechanisms to directly pierce corporate perimeters. 
As a result of this new breed of cybercrime, Cybercrime as a Service (CaaS) is thriving and increasing the likelihood of companies and user segments becoming targets. Advanced marketing and app developers are no longer within the confines of business; they are equally skilled and available for hire on the dark side. These organized, global adversaries—cybercriminals, hacktivists, and nation-states—are employing the same technologies and leveraging known brands and trust to propagate malware, obtain user credentials and other sensitive information, and impact brand and shareholder value. The challenge for business and infosec professionals is how to manage this digital risk, which requires the same visibility and control organizations have inside the firewall from the outside.  
However, many security teams have unknown, unmanaged, unsanctioned, and malicious internet-facing assets (e.g. website, web apps, mobile apps, hosted services, affiliates, supply chain) that act as inroads for cyber attacks and data breaches. According to the 2017 Verizon Data Breach and Incident Report, more than 75% of the incidents that lead to data breaches originate externally, almost half of which target unknown—and thus unmanaged—digital assets. 
This nominal oversight helps nurture the growth of digital threats. Over the past year, industry is feeling the ramifications of:
 
With this much digital threat volume, velocity, morphing and sophistication, employee and consumer security awareness will not suffice. The online and mobile population is too large, too diverse, and seemingly not security aware. Just as organizations have invested in modernizing internal controls along the lines of improving web and privilege access management, data and system governance, network segmentation and application containerization, and resiliency technologies, so too must organizations mature their external digital defenses. 
Unfortunately, SANS.org’s annual continuous monitoring survey reported that 75% of security staff couldn’t identify external threats that are used to launch cyber attacks. Worse, 70% don’t have visibility of their attack surface—the exposed web, social and mobile external-facing assets exploited by cyber criminals. While the initial answer appears to start with threat feed enrichment and ad hoc services, the majority external threat detection and response comes way too little and too late—resulting in unplanned operational expenditure, resource consumption, and liability.  
The significant rise and publicity of web, social, and mobile threats are ushering in an extension of conventional security strategies, skills, controls, and tools. Progressive organizations and big brands are investing in end-to-end approaches that enable security staff to move to a more systematic, automated means to help reduce business impact of and increase proactive response to external digital threats. This undertaking requires internet data reconnaissance, big data analytics, machine learning, and applications designed to help automate discovery, research, risk analysis, and mitigation tasks across a security organization.It requires collaboration among information security professionals from both industry and vendor communities as exemplified by the FS-ISAC consortium in the financial services industry. It also necessitates coordination between departments, such as dealing with domain infringement and brand abuse among security, marketing and legal to facilitate online disputes. 
For the above reasons, we’re gratified that the RiskIQ Digital Threat Management Platform has been distinguished in an Ovum Research “On the Radar” report for providing organizations with comprehensive visibility and protection of their digital presence. The report cites that the combination of RiskIQ’s threat intelligence and application suite presents organizations with additional layers of business and brand protection, and the opportunity to make cost savings as a result of our automated approach to digital threat management. This assessment is consistent with the Forrester Wave™: Digital Risk Monitoring Q3 2016 report, which specifically recognized RiskIQ as a leader for our broadness of coverage, and noted our unique position as the only vendor with comprehensive monitoring across social, mobile, and web. 
To learn more, download the full report and sign up for RiskIQ Community Edition at no charge.
