A Message from CMO Scott Gordon: Joining the Digital Defense Transformation
As companies take advantage of digital channels to grow their business through web, social, and mobile engagement, they expose their flanks to online predators who prey on brands and consumer trust to capture the credentials and sensitive data of customers, partners, and employees. Today, over 80% of data breaches are due to external threat actors, and examples of business and consumer security exposures are everywhere.
It’s no surprise then that more senior executives than ever feel their organization is at risk from cyber threats and infosec professionals are being tasked with new digital defense requirements at the operating and board level. But most security controls are internal-facing, which presents a serious digital threat management gap, a fact that is not only true in the U.S. but also worldwide. That’s why I couldn’t be more excited to join RiskIQ, where we’re helping customers fortify their digital presence by protecting them from the ever-growing threat landscape outside their firewall.
I was attracted to RiskIQ in particular because of their Digital Threat Management (DTM) platform, their technology, the team’s passion for the customer, and the overall market opportunity. Together, these things make RiskIQ a leader in this digital defense transformation and a truly compelling value proposition.
Rather than be a threat aggregator or single-purpose / single-channel tool vendor, RiskIQ benefits from leveraging the most comprehensive source of public and proprietary internet data that, when combined with data science and machine learning technology, yields substantive intelligence upon which digital defense applications can be built. The resulting RiskIQ solution suite spans use cases across the discovery, detection, assessment, investigation, and mitigation spectrum—and encompasses all digital channels.
The timing for me to contribute to RiskIQ’s success couldn’t be better. RiskIQ is in the midst of a perfect storm comprised of double-digit revenue growth, $30.5 million in Series C funding, and recognition by Forrester, which named us a leader in its Forrester Wave™: Digital Risk Monitoring Q3 2016 report. These recently announced milestones all further validate our fundamental philosophy that the conventional layered defense approach must incorporate digital intelligence and defense.
Stay tuned for some serious company and platform news to come in Q1 and be sure to give RiskIQ PassiveTotal, our digital threat investigation and monitoring tool, a try.
