APT37 (REAPER) 

The Overlooked North Korean Actor

PY

SPECIAL REPORT

2

SPECIAL REPORT

APT37 (REAPER): THE OVERLOOKED NORTH KOREAN ACTOR

3

CONTENTS

Introduction 

Targeting and Mission 

Initial Infection Vectors 

Exploited Vulnerabilities 

Command and Control Infrastructure 

Malware 

Attribution 

Outlook and Implications 

Appendix: Malware Used by APT37 

3

4

7

8

9

10

12

13

14

INTRODUCTION

On Feb. 2, 2018, we published a blog detailing the use of an Adobe Flash zero-day 
vulnerability (CVE-2018-4878) by a suspected North Korean cyber espionage group 
that we now track as APT37 (Reaper). Recent examination of this group’s activities by 
FireEye iSIGHT Intelligence reveals APT37 has expanded its operations in both scope 
and sophistication. APT37’s toolset, which includes access to zero-day vulnerabilities 
and wiper malware, combined with heightened tensions in Northeast Asia and North 
Korea’s penchant for norm breaking, means this group should be taken seriously.

We assess with high confidence that this activity is carried out on behalf of the North 
Korean government given malware development artifacts and targeting that aligns 
with North Korean state interests. FireEye iSIGHT Intelligence believes that APT37 is 
aligned with the activity publicly reported as Scarcruft and Group123.

4

SPECIAL REPORT

APT37 (REAPER): THE OVERLOOKED NORTH KOREAN ACTOR

5

Targeting  
and Mission

APT37 has likely been active since at least 2012 
and focuses on targeting the public and private 
sectors primarily in South Korea. In 2017, APT37 
expanded its targeting beyond the Korean 
peninsula to include Japan, Vietnam and the 
Middle East, and to a wider range of industry 
verticals, including chemicals, electronics, 
manufacturing, aerospace, automotive and 
healthcare entities (Fig. 1).

Figure 1. APT37 Targeting Scope.

We judge that APT37’s primary mission is 
covert intelligence gathering in support of North 
Korea’s strategic military, political and economic 
interests. This is based on consistent targeting 
of South Korean public and private entities and 
social engineering. APT37’s recently expanded 
targeting scope also appears to have direct 
relevance to North Korea’s strategic interests.

From 2014 to 2017, APT37 targeting 
concentrated primarily on the South Korean 
government, military, defense industrial base, 
and media sector. Lure materials (Fig. 2) 
typically leveraged the Korean language and 
featured themes such as Korean peninsula 
reunification or sanctions. 

Figure 2. “2016 Korean 
Reunification Conference Form” 
(MD5:183be2035d5a546670d2b9deeca4eb59).

6

SPECIAL REPORT

APT37 (REAPER): THE OVERLOOKED NORTH KOREAN ACTOR

7

In 2017, APT37 targeted a Middle Eastern 
company that entered into a joint venture 
with the North Korean government to provide 
telecommunications service to the country (read 
on for a case study). At that time, other targets 
included individuals involved in international 
affairs and trade issues, the general director of a 
Vietnamese international trading and transport 
company, and possibly individuals working with 
Olympics organizations assisting in securing 
resources for athletes.

North Korean defector and human rights-related 
targeting provides further evidence that APT37 
conducts operations aligned with the interests of 
North Korea. 

APT37 targeted a research fellow, advisory 
member, and journalist associated with different 
North Korean human rights issues and strategic 
organizations. It also targeted an entity in Japan 
associated with the United Nations missions on 
sanctions and human rights. APT37 distributed 
SLOWDRIFT malware using a lure referencing 
the Korea Global Forum against academic and 
strategic institutions located in South Korea. 
Notably, the email was sent from a compromised 
South Korean institute that conducts studies on 
North Korea. The string “durihana,” which is also 
the name of a Christian missionary organization 
that works with North Korean defectors, was 
included in an APT37 weaponized document 
sent to an individual who works with a North 
Korean human rights organization.

CASE STUDY:  
Targeting of Middle 
Eastern Organization 
with Business ties to 
North Korea

We believe a Middle Eastern organization 
was targeted by APT37 because it had 
been involved with a North Korean 
company and a business deal went bad. 
This firm was targeted shortly after media 
reports of this schism had gone public. The 
targeting effort may have been an attempt 
by the North Korean government to gather 
information on a former business partner. 
The operation exemplifies APT37’s tactics, 
techniques and procedures (TTPs), and 
reflects the advanced capabilities of this 
espionage group.

In May 2017, APT37 used a bank 
liquidation letter as a spear phishing lure 
against a board member of a Middle 
Eastern financial company. The specially 
crafted email included an attachment 
containing exploit code for CVE-2017-
0199, a vulnerability in Microsoft Office 
that had been disclosed just a month 
earlier. Once opened, the malicious 
document communicated with a 
compromised website, most likely to 
surreptitiously download and install a 
backdoor called SHUTTERSPEED (MD5: 
7c2ebfc7960aac6f8d58b37e3f092a9c). 
The tool would enable APT37 to collect 
system information, take screenshots and 
download additional malicious files to the 
victim computer.

Initial Infection Vectors

In addition to the aforementioned spear phishing tactics, APT37 
leverages a variety of methods to deliver malware. These include 
strategic web compromises typical of targeted cyber espionage 
operations, as well as the use of torrent file-sharing sites to distribute 
malware more indiscriminately. 

Numerous campaigns have employed social engineering tactics 
tailored specifically to desired targets. Lures and websites of particular 
interest to South Korean organizations (e.g. reunification) are regularly 
leveraged in campaigns. Multiple South Korean websites were abused 
in strategic web compromises to deliver newer variants of KARAE 
and POORAIM malware. Identified sites included South Korean 
conservative media and a news site for North Korean refugees and 
defectors. In one instance, APT37 weaponized a video downloader 
application with KARAE malware that was indiscriminately distributed 
to South Korean victims through torrent websites.

8

SPECIAL REPORT

APT37 (REAPER): THE OVERLOOKED NORTH KOREAN ACTOR

9

CVE-2018-4878 (Zero-day vulnerability)

CVE-2017-0199

CVE Release Date

Exploit

CVE-2013-4979

CVE-2013-4979

CVE-2015-2387

CVE-2015-2545

CVE-2015-7645

CVE-2015-5122

CVE-2016-4117

CVE-2014-8439

CVE-2016-1019

CVE-2015-5119

CVE-2015-2419

CVE-2015-3105

FEB

JAN

DEC NOV OCT

SEP

AUG

JUL

JUN MAY APR MAR

FEB

JAN

DEC NOV OCT

SEP

AUG

JUL

JUN MAY APR MAR

FEB

JAN

DEC NOV OCT

SEP

AUG

JUL

JUN MAY APR MAR

FEB

JAN

DEC NOV OCT

SEP

AUG

JUL

JUN MAY APR MAR

FEB

JAN

2018

2017

2016

2015

2014

Figure 3. Timeline of CVE Release Dates vs. Dates of APT37 CVE Exploitation.

Exploited Vulnerabilities

APT37 frequently exploits vulnerabilities in Hangul 
Word Processor (HWP) due to the software’s 
prevalence in South Korea. Further, the group 
recently demonstrated access to zero-day 
vulnerabilities (CVE-2018-0802) and has the 
flexibility to quickly incorporate recently publicized 
vulnerabilities into spear phishing and strategic web 
compromise operations. These capabilities suggest 
a high operational tempo and specialized expertise.

APT37 has repeatedly deployed exploits, especially 
in Flash, quickly after vulnerabilities are initially 
publicized (see Table 1). CVE-2016-4117, CVE-
2016-1019 and CVE-2015-3043 were all exploited 
by APT37 in this way. FireEye iSIGHT Intelligence 
confirmed that since at least November 2017, APT37 

exploited a zero-day Adobe Flash vulnerability, 
CVE-2018-4878, to distribute DOGCALL malware to 
South Korean victims. 

While use and discovery of zero-day exploits over 
the past several years has expanded beyond a 
nation-state dominated environment to include 
commercial vendors of cyber espionage capabilities 
and sophisticated financially motivated actors, access 
to zero-day exploits remains a factor in distinguishing 
sophisticated or well-resourced actors.  

Figure 3 details the vulnerabilities exploited by 
APT37, comparing the time of exploitation to the 
time the CVE was released. 

Command and Control Infrastructure

APT37 uses a variety of techniques for command 
and control. They leverage compromised servers, 
messaging platforms and cloud service providers 
to avoid detection. The group often relies on 
compromised sites to host second stage malware 
payloads. Over time, APT37 has changed the email 
providers to set up command and control accounts 
in a possible attempt to cover their tracks and cause 
misdirection. These tactics have been refined over the 
years as APT37 evolves to evade network defenders. 

APT37 has used various legitimate platforms as 
command and control for its malware tools. While 
some early campaigns leveraged POORAIM, which 
abused AOL Instant Messenger, newer activity 
deploys DOGCALL, which uses cloud storage APIs 
such as pCloud and Dropbox.

APT37 relies on compromised websites to host 
second stage malware. Small websites focused 
on subjects such as aromatherapy and scuba 
diving have been leveraged, and were most likely 
compromised opportunistically and made to host 
malicious payloads. 

APT37 has improved its operational security over 
time. For example, early 2015 use of SLOWDRIFT 
involved credentials associated with Korea related 
mail servers such as “Daum.net”. Later, in 2015 
and early 2016, APT37 pivoted to different email 
providers such as Gmail and “hmamail.com” in an 
attempt to anonymize activity. Then from mid-2016 
onward, APT37 began using @yandex.com and @
india.com email accounts -- possibly an attempt to 
cause misattribution. 

10

SPECIAL REPORT

APT37 (REAPER): THE OVERLOOKED NORTH KOREAN ACTOR

11

Malware 

APT37 employs a diverse suite of malware for initial intrusion 
and exfiltration. Their malware is characterized by a focus 
on stealing information from victims, with many set up to 
automatically exfiltrate data of interest. Figure 4 shows APT37’s 
malware usage over time. A full breakdown of the malware we 
associate with APT37, along with how it is detected by FireEye 
devices, is available in the Appendix. 

Along with custom malware used for espionage purposes, 
APT37 also has access to destructive malware. In April 2017, 
APT37 targeted South Korean military and government 
organizations with the DOGCALL backdoor and RUHAPPY 
wiper malware. Although the wiper capability was not 
used in the identified instance, RUHAPPY can overwrite a 
machine's Master Boot Record (MBR), causing the system to 
fail to boot into preconfigured partitions.

It is possible that APT37’s distribution of KARAE malware 
via torrent websites could assist in creating and maintaining 
botnets for future distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) 
attacks, or for other activity such as financially motivated 
campaigns or disruptive operations. Disruptive and 
destructive cyber threat activity, including the use of wiper 
malware, public leaks of proprietary materials by false 
hacktivist personas, DDoS attacks and electronic warfare 
tactics such as GPS signal jamming is consistent with past 
behavior by other North Korean actors. 

2015

2016

2017

2018

JAN

FEB MAR APR MAY

JUN

JUL

AUG

SEP OCT NOV DEC

JAN

FEB MAR APR MAY

JUN

JUL

AUG

SEP OCT NOV DEC

JAN

FEB MAR APR MAY

JUN

JUL

AUG

SEP OCT NOV DEC

JAN

Figure 4.  
Timeline of APT37 Malware Use  
By First and Last Observed  
Compile Times.

KARAE

SOUNDWAVE

ZUMKONG

RICECURRY

CORALDECK

POORAIM

SLOWDRIFT

MILKDROP

GELCAPSULE

DOGCALL

HAPPYWORK

RUHAPPY

SHUTTERSPEED

WINERACK

12

SPECIAL REPORT

APT37 (REAPER): THE OVERLOOKED NORTH KOREAN ACTOR

13

Attribution

We assess with high confidence that 
APT37 acts in support of the North 
Korean government and is primarily 
based in North Korea. This assessment 
is based on multiple factors, including 
APT37’s targeting profile, insight into 
the group’s malware development 
and probable links to a North Korean 
individual believed to be the developer 
of several of APT37’s proprietary 
malware families:

• An individual we believe to be the 

developer behind several APT37 
malware payloads inadvertently 
disclosed personal data showing that 
the actor was operating from an IP 
address and access point associated 
with North Korea.

• The compilation times of APT37 

malware is consistent with a developer 
operating in the North Korea time 
zone (UTC +8:30) and follows what is 
believed to be a typical North Korean 
workday (Fig. 5). The majority of 
malware compilation times occurred 
between 10:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., with 

a dip around noon. Additional activity 
occurred late into the evening. This 
is consistent with media reporting of 
extremely long hours for North Korean 
workers.

• The majority of APT37 activity 

continues to target South Korea, North 
Korean defectors, and organizations 
and individuals involved in Korean 
Peninsula reunification efforts. Similarly, 
APT37 targeting of a Middle Eastern 
company in 2017 is also consistent 
with North Korean objectives given the 
entity’s extensive relationships inside 
North Korea. 

12 a.m.

1 a.m.

2 a.m

3 a.m

4 a.m

5 a.m

6 a.m

7 a.m

8 a.m

9 a.m.

10 a.m

11 a.m.

12 p.m.

1 p.m.

2 p.m.

3 p.m.

4 p.m.

5 p.m.

6 p.m.

7 p.m.

8 p.m.

9 p.m.

10 p.m.

11 p.m.

Figure 5. APT37 Compile Times Against Local Time in North Korea.

Frequency

Outlook and Implications 

North Korea has repeatedly demonstrated a 
willingness to leverage its cyber capabilities for 
a variety of purposes, undeterred by notional 
redlines and international norms. Though they 
have primarily tapped other tracked suspected 
North Korean teams to carry out the most 
aggressive actions, APT37 is an additional tool 
available to the regime, perhaps even desirable for 
its relative obscurity. We anticipate APT37 will be 
leveraged more and more in previously unfamiliar 
roles and regions, especially as pressure mounts 
on their sponsor.

The slow transformation of regional actors into 
global threats is well established. Minor incidents 
in Ukraine, the Middle East and South Korea have 
heralded the threats, which are now impossible to 
ignore. In some cases, the global economy connects 
organizations to aggressive regional actors. In other 
cases, a growing mandate draws the actor on to 
the international stage. Ignored, these threats enjoy 
the benefit of surprise, allowing them to extract 
significant losses on their victims, many of whom 
have never previously heard of the actor.

14

15

Appendix: Malware Used by APT37

Malware

Description

Detected as

Malware

Description

Detected as

CORALDECK

DOGCALL

CORALDECK is an exfiltration tool that searches for specified 
files and exfiltrates them in password protected archives using 
hardcoded HTTP POST headers. CORALDECK has been observed 
dropping and using Winrar to exfiltrate data in password 
protected RAR files as well as WinImage and zip archives.

APT.InfoStealer.Win.CORALDECK

FE_APT_InfoStealer_Win_
CORALDECK_1

MILKDROP

POORAIM

DOGCALL is a backdoor commonly distributed as an encoded 
binary file downloaded and decrypted by shellcode following the 
exploitation of weaponized documents. DOGCALL is capable of 
capturing screenshots, logging keystrokes, evading analysis with 
anti-virtual machine detections, and leveraging cloud storage APIs 
such as Cloud, Box, Dropbox, and Yandex.

FE_APT_RAT_DOGCALL 

FE_APT_Backdoor_Win32_
DOGCALL_1 

APT.Backdoor.Win.DOGCALL

DOGCALL was used to target South Korean Government and 
military organizations in March and April 2017. 

The malware is typically dropped using an HWP exploit in a lure 
document. 

The wiper tool, RUHAPPY, was found on some of the systems 
targeted by DOGCALL. While DOGCALL is primarily an espionage 
tool, RUHAPPY is a destructive wiper tool meant to render 
systems inoperable.

GELCAPSULE

HAPPYWORK

GELCAPSULE is a downloader traditionally dropped or 
downloaded by an exploit document. GELCAPSULE has been 
observed downloading SLOWDRIFT to victim systems.

FE_APT_Downloader_Win32_
GELCAPSULE_1

HAPPYWORK is a malicious downloader that can download and 
execute a second-stage payload, collect system information, and 
beacon it to the command and control domains. The collected 
system information includes: computer name, user name, system 
manufacturer via registry, IsDebuggerPresent state, and execution 
path.

FE_APT_Downloader_
HAPPYWORK

FE_APT_Exploit_HWP_Happy

Downloader.APT.HAPPYWORK

In November 2016, HAPPYWORK targeted government and 
financial targets in South Korea.

KARAE

Karae backdoors are typically used as first-stage malware after an 
initial compromise. The backdoors can collect system information, 
upload and download files, and may be used to retrieve a second-
stage payload. The malware uses public cloud-based storage 
providers for command and control.

FE_APT_Backdoor_Karae_enc

FE_APT_Backdoor_Karae

Backdoor.APT.Karae

In March 2016, KARAE malware was distributed through 
torrent file-sharing websites for South Korean users. During 
this campaign, the malware used a YouTube video downloader 
application as a lure.

MILKDROP is a launcher that sets a persistence registry 
key and launches a backdoor.

FE_Trojan_Win32_MILKDROP_1

POORAIM malware is designed with basic backdoor 
functionality and leverages AOL Instant Messenger 
for command and control communications. POORAIM 
includes the following capabilities: System information 
enumeration, File browsing, manipulation and exfiltration, 
Process enumeration, Screen capture, File execution, 
Exfiltration of browser favorites, and battery status. 
Exfiltrated data is sent via files over AIM.

POORAIM has been involved in campaigns against South 
Korean media organizations and sites relating to North 
Korean refugees and defectors since early 2014.

Compromised sites have acted as watering holes to 
deliver newer variants of POORAIM.

RICECURRY is a Javascript based profiler used to 
fingerprint a victim's web browser and deliver malicious 
code in return. Browser, operating system, and Adobe 
Flash version are detected by RICECURRY, which may be 
a modified version of PluginDetect.

RUHAPPY is a destructive wiper tool seen on systems 
targeted by DOGCALL. It attempts to overwrite the MBR, 
causing the system not to boot. When victims' systems 
attempt to boot, the string "Are you Happy?" is displayed.

The malware is believed to be tied to the developers of 
DOGCALL and HAPPYWORK based on similar PDB paths 
in all three.

Backdoor.APT.POORAIM

Exploit.APT.RICECURRY

FE_APT_Trojan_Win32_RUHAPPY_1

RICECURRY

RUHAPPY

SHUTTERSPEED

SHUTTERSPEED is a backdoor that can collect system 
information, acquire screenshots, and download/execute 
an arbitrary executable. SHUTTERSPEED typically 
requires an argument at runtime in order to execute fully. 
Observed arguments used by SHUTTERSPEED include: 
'help', 'console', and 'sample'.

FE_APT_Backdoor_SHUTTERSPEED

APT.Backdoor.SHUTTERSPEED

APT.Backdoor.SHUTTERSPEED

The spear phishing email messages contained documents 
exploiting RTF vulnerability CVE-2017-0199. 

Many of the compromised domains in the command 
and control infrastructure are linked to South Korean 
companies. Most of these domains host a fake webpage 
pertinent to targets.

SPECIAL REPORTAPT37 (REAPER): THE OVERLOOKED NORTH KOREAN ACTORMalware

Description

SLOWDRIFT

SLOWDRIFT is a launcher that communicates via cloud based 
infrastructure. It sends system information to the attacker 
command and control and then downloads and executes 
additional payloads.

Lure documents distributing SLOWDRIFT were not tailored for 
specific victims, suggesting that TEMP.Reaper is attempting to 
widen its target base across multiple industries and in the private 
sector.

SLOWDRIFT was seen being deployed against academic and 
strategic targets in South Korea using lure emails with documents 
leveraging the HWP exploit.

Recent SLOWDRIFT samples were uncovered in June 2017 with 
lure documents pertaining to cyber crime prevention and news 
stories. These documents were last updated by the same actor 
who developed KARAE, POORAIM and ZUMKONG.

Detected as

FE_APT_Downloader_Win_
SLOWDRIFT_1

FE_APT_Downloader_Win_
SLOWDRIFT_2

APT.Downloader.SLOWDRIFT

SOUNDWAVE

SOUNDWAVE is a windows based audio capturing utility. Via 
command line it accepts the -l switch (for listen probably), 
captures microphone input for 100 minutes, writing the 
data out to a log file in this format: C:\Temp\HncDownload\
YYYYMMDDHHMMSS.log.

FE_APT_HackTool_Win32_
SOUNDWAVE_1

ZUMKONG

WINERACK

ZUMKONG is a credential stealer capable of harvesting usernames 
and passwords stored by Internet Explorer and Chrome browsers. 
Stolen credentials are emailed to the attacker via HTTP POST 
requests to mail[.]zmail[.]ru.

FE_APT_Trojan_Zumkong

Trojan.APT.Zumkong

WINERACK is backdoor whose primary features include user and 
host information gathering, process creation and termination, 
filesystem and registry manipulation, as well as the creation 
of a reverse shell that utilizes statically-linked Wine cmd.exe 
code to emulate Windows command prompt commands. Other 
capabilities include the enumeration of files, directories, services, 
active windows and processes.

FE_APT_Backdoor_WINERACK

Backdoor.APT.WINERACK 

FireEye, Inc
© 2018 FireEye, Inc. All rights reserved. FireEye is a registered trademark of FireEye, Inc.  
All other brands, products, or service names are or may be trademarks  
or service marks of their respective owners. SP.APT37.EN-US.22018

FireEye, Inc.  
601 McCarthy Blvd. Milpitas, CA 95035  
408.321.6300 
877 FIREEYE (347.3393) 
info@FireEye.com  

www.FireEye.com

