DFIR Monterey 2015 Network Forensics Challenge Released

Join us at DFIR Monterey 2015 - a Reverse Engineering Digital Forensics and Incident Response Education (REDFIRE) Event.
This unique Digital Forensics and Incident Response (DFIR) event brings our most popular forensics courses, instructors, and bonus seminars together in one place to offer one of SANS most comprehensive DFIR training experiences. This is a must-attend event for you and your team as our leading experts focus on building the DFIR skills that will take you to that next level.
The objective of the  DFIR Monterey 2015   challenge is simple: Download the network forensics dataset and attempt to answer the 6 questions. To successfully submit for the contest, all answers must be attempted. Each person that correctly answers 4 of the 6 questions will be entered into a drawing to win a FREE DFIR OnDemand course. The contest ends on February 3, 2015 and we will announce the winner by February 9, 2015. Good luck!
Win a free DFIR OnDemand course by downloading the network forensic dataset and answering the following questions.
DOWNLOAD LINK FOR NETWORK Data:  http://dfir.to/FOR572-Challenge-Data
QUESTIONS LINK:  http://dfir.to/DFIRCON-Challenge-15
To successfully submit for the contest. All answers must be attempted. Please include your name and email address.
The winner will be able to choose from the below DFIR OnDemand courses:
SANS OnDemand is the world's leading comprehensive online training for information security professionals. OnDemand offers more than 25 SANS courses whenever and wherever you want from your computer (Windows, Mac, and Linux), iPad or Android tablet. OnDemand allows you to learn at your own pace, spend extra time on complex principles, reinforce concepts with quizzes, and repeat lab exercises - all of which increases your retention of the course material.
Your course enrollment gives you printed course books, CD/DVDs/USBs/Toolkits for hands-on exercises (as applicable), four months of online access to our OnDemand e-learning platform featuring a top SANS instructor presenting the material, quizzes, and synchronized video demonstrations/interactive labs (as applicable).
The Network Challenge is sponsored by DFIR Monterey 2015.  To learn more about  DFIRMonterey 2015 , please visit   http://dfir.to/DFIRMonterey15
Rules:
Questions regarding the challenge?  Please send to DFIR-Challenge "at" sans.org. (DFIR-Challenge@sans.org )
