SANS SIFT 3.0 Virtual Machine Released
Download SIFT Workstation VMware Appliance Now - 1.5 GB
An international team of forensics experts, led by SANS Faculty Fellow Rob Lee, created the SANS Investigative Forensic Toolkit (SIFT) Workstation and made it available to the whole community as a public service. The free SIFT toolkit, that can match any modern forensic tool suite, is also featured in SANS' Advanced Computer Forensic Analysis and Incident Response course (FOR 508). It demonstrates that advanced investigations and responding to intrusions can be accomplished using cutting-edge open-source tools that are freely available and frequently updated.
Offered free of charge, the SIFT 3.0 Workstation will debut during SANS' Advanced Computer Forensic Analysis and Incident Response course (FOR508) at DFIRCON. SIFT 3.0 demonstrates that advanced investigations and responding to intrusions can be accomplished using cutting-edge open-source tools that are freely available and frequently updated.
"Even if SIFT were to cost tens of thousands of dollars, it would still be a very competitive product," says, Alan Paller, director of research at SANS. "At no cost, there is no reason it should not be part of the portfolio in every organization that has skilled forensics analysts."
Developed and continually updated by an international team of forensic experts, the SIFT is a group of free open-source forensic tools designed to perform detailed digital forensic examinations in a variety of settings. With over 100,000 downloads to date, the SIFT continues to be the most popular open-source forensic offering next to commercial source solutions.
"The SIFT Workstation has quickly become my "go to" tool when conducting an exam. The powerful open source forensic tools in the kit on top of the versatile and stable Linux operating system make for quick access to most everything I need to conduct a thorough analysis of a computer system," said Ken Pryor, GCFA Robinson, IL Police Department
Key new features of SIFT 3.0 include:
Download SIFT Workstation VMware Appliance - 1.5 GB
Note: The file is zipped using 7zip in the 7z format. We recommend 7zip to unzip it. Download 7zip.
We tried to make the installation (and upgrade) of the SIFT workstation as simple as possible, so we create the SIFT Bootstrap project, which is a shell script that can be downloaded and executed to convert your Ubuntu installation into a SIFT workstation.
Check the project out at https://github.com/sans-dfir/sift-bootstrap
Using wget to install the latest, configure SIFT, and SIFT theme
wget -quiet -O - https://raw.github.com/sans-dfir/sift-bootstrap/master/bootstrap.sh | sudo sh -s — -i -s -y
Using wget to install the latest (tools only)
wget -quiet -O - https://raw.github.com/sans-dfir/sift-bootstrap/master/bootstrap.sh | sudo sh -s — -i
After downloading the toolkit, use the credentials below to gain access.
Ability to securely examine raw disks, multiple file systems, evidence formats. Places strict guidelines on how evidence is examined (read-only) verifying that the evidence has not changed
As with any release, there will be bugs and requests, please report all issues and bugs to the following website and location.
https://github.com/sans-dfir/sift/issues
SIFT workstation is playing an important role for the Brazilian national prosecution office, especially due to Brazilian government budgetary constraints. Its forensic capabilities are bundled on a way that allows an investigation to be conducted much faster than it would take if not having the right programs grouped on such great Linux distribution. The new version, which will be bootable, will be even more helpful. I'd highly recommend SIFT for government agencies or other companies as a first alternative, for acquisition and analysis, from the pricey forensics software available on the market.
- Marcelo Caiado, M.Sc., CISSP, GCFA, EnCE
What I like the best about SIFT is that my forensic analysis is not limited because of only being ableto run a forensic tool on a specific host operating system. With the SIFT VM Appliance, I can create snapshots to avoid cross-contamination of evidence from case to case, and easily manage system and AV updates to the host OS on my forensic workstation. Not to mention, being able to mount forensic images and share them as read-only with my host OS, where I can run other forensic tools to parse data, stream-lining the forensic examination process.
- Brad Garnett www.digitalforensicsource.com
