
					Cracka hackers who doxed CIA Chief, now hit the FBI Deputy Director					
I always say, give a keyboard and internet connection to a kid and he would destroy your company. It is not a joke, the effort needed to launch a cyber attack is smaller than in the past, and the economy of an attack advantages striker, who faces a very low cost compared to defense and would cause devastating damage.
Recently, four teens were arrested in connection with the TalkTalk data breach, meanwhile a group of alleged teenagers has hacked the personal email account of the CIA Director John Brennan.
The group of young hackers calls themselves “Crackass” (Cracka)  and now it seems they are targeting other US Government Officials, they are arrogant and heedless of the fact that the Feds are on their tracks.
“Now the hackers are back at it, despite the fact that the FBI is investigating them, and that some law enforcement officials anonymously said the government is going to “make an example” out of them.” explained Lorenzo Bicchierai on Motherboard.
One of members of the cyber gang  “Cracka” told Motherboard that they have now hacked the email account belonging another illustrious US official, the FBI Deputy Director Mark Giuliano.
This time the hackers violated a Comcast email account belonging to the Giuliano’s wife, they also published online a series of screenshots to prove they were in the account. The attackers haven’t provided further information on the method they used to take over the email account.
An email account, event your wife’s email is rich of precious information like your contact list, but it could include more data such as information related your next trip or the results of a clinical examination to which you have subjected. In this case, the hackers have found Giuliano’s mobile phone in the email account’s contact lists and called him.
“I called it and asked for Mark and he’s like ‘I don’t know you but you better watch your back’ and then he hung up and I kept calling and he was getting mad then he didn’t pick up,” Cracka told Motherboard via online chat.

 
The FBI still hasn’t commented the alleged hack of the Giuliano’s email.
The hacking crew targeted the FBI official because the Feds are investigating on them
Cracka said that they were not looking to get any information out of this hack, is an action conducted for revenge.
“We didn’t target him for anything interesting, we targeted him because FBI are [sic] investigating us,” he said.
Lorenzo Bicchierai who had the opportunity to view the screenshots shared by the Cracka confirmed that the account doesn’t appear to contain any sensitive information, except the contact list.
Anyway this contact list could be a good starting point for skilled hackers that could use is to target the family and friends of the couple in order to gather other information for a successive attack.
Stay tuned and thanks to Lorenzo Bicchierai for its excellent post.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – FBI , Cracka)
