
					Dotcom launches MegaChat for end-to-end encrypted audio and video communications					
The Internet community is even more scared by continuous violation of the privacy for this reason IT community is looking new solutions that could protect users’ experience online from prying eyes.
Government could be snooping in our emails, voice or video calls and monitor our browsing sessions, for this reason principal security vendors are proposing new solutions that implement encryption mechanisms to protect us.
The popular Kim Dotcom, who operated the Megaupload service and Mega file sharing platform has now presented its last effort, a totally encrypted communication platform for messaging and chat and also video calling.
Kim Dotcom and his team have designed a new feature available in the file-sharing site Mega, the expert launched a public beta of an end-to-end encrypted video and audio chat service called “MegaChat”.
Kim Dotcom explained that MegaChat would allow users to communicate with anyone over the Internet via audio or video by simply using a web browser, but different from other solutions its communication could not be intercepted by third parties.
According to Kim Dotcom, MegaChat is safer than other commercial products, including Google Hangouts and Skype. The current version of MegaChat implements browser-based audio and video calls, but Kim anticipated via Twitter the next release for “Text chat and video conferencing will follow soon,”

 
In the above tweet Kim Dotcom explicitly refers MegaChat comes three years after law enforcement seized Megaupload and raided his mansion in Auckland.
But hit Dotcom is a difficult task, he is eclectic, unconventional and always one step ahead. He led a legal battle to avoid extradition from New Zealand to the U.S. on copyright infringement charges.
Kim announced also launched a bounty program for Mega platform exhorting coders to report any vulnerability.
“#Mega offers a security bounty again. Please report any security flaw to us. We’ll fix it and reward you. Thanks for helping.” tweeted Kim Dotcom.
The MagaChat will be a surely success, is a few hours its servers managed over 500,000 calls.
“Already over 500,000 calls within just a few hours. Thank you for using”
Use the Mega platform is quite easy, users just need to sign an account.
To start a video chat session, the user just needs to log in via web browser and then start a conversation with another registered user by clicking on the “Conversations icon”.
So Guys … let’s try to use MegaChat end-to-end encrypted instant messenger for video chat.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – MegaChat, Kim Dotcom)
