
					Kapustkiy hacked the Slovak Chamber of Commerce					
New Week, new hack! This is Kapustkiy ‘s motto that announced the breach of the Slovak Chamber of Commerce (www.scci.sk). The popular hacker accessed data belonging to more than 4,000 users and published it on Pastebin.
The hacker exploited an SQLInjection vulnerability, the archive contains users’ data including real names, email addresses, phone numbers and encrypted passwords.
Kapustkiy told me that there is no specific reason for the choice of this specific target, he was just searching for a government website while scanning the Internet.
“I breached this target because it is related to the Government its funny to see how bad their security is.” he told me.
He added to have hacked the website to make awareness and push admis to adopt a better security posture to protect their users.
“My motivation is to let admins see the consequence of a data breach.” said Kapustkiy. “And understand the danger.”

The hacker tried to report the issue to the admins two days ago, but he received no response.
Kapustkiy also told me that he joined the New World Hackers team.
“I work as Researcher and Pentester there” he told me.
Recently Kapustkiy targeted several organizations, the last in order of time is the Consular Department of the Embassy of the Russian Federation.
Kapustkiy also has breached the Argentinian Ministry of Industry, the National Assembly of Ecuador, the Venezuela Army, the High Commission of Ghana & Fiji in India, the India Regional Council as well as organizations and embassies across the world.
He also broke into the ‘Dipartimento dellaFunzione Pubblica’ Office of the Italian Government, the Paraguay Embassy of Taiwan (www.embapartwroc.com.tw), and the Indian Embassies in Switzerland, Mali, Romania, Italy, Malawi, and Libya.
Update 20 December 2016
The Cert of Slovakia have reported the incident and the website is offline for maintenance activities.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Kapustkiy, Slovak Chamber of Commerce)
