
					Anonymous leaked 18GB of data belonging to the Turkish national police					
The group of hacktivists Anonymous has just released roughly 18GB of sensitive data belonging to the Turkey’s national police.
The hackers have accessed the database of the Turkish General Directorate of Security (EGM) and leaked the archive on file sharing websites.
Anonymous targeted the Turkish authorities to protest against widespread corruption within the Turkish government.
“Hey Turkey, I have something to show you tomorrow. See, if you fight your citizens, they will bite back. #standby.” states a tweet posted on Sunday by the account @CthulhuSec

The same account shared a link to precious archive a day after the fist tweet, “Enjoy responsibly” stated the message.

The link shared points to a page including the links to the archive and the following message:
“I have been asked to release the following files by ROR[RG], who is responsible for collecting them.
The material was taken from the EGM which is the Turkey National Police.
The source has had persistent access to various parts of the Turkish Government infrastructure for the past 2 years and
in light of various government abuses in the past few months, has decided to take action against corruption by releasing this.” reports the page.
 The access to the 17.8 GB data requires “some knowledge of databases”:
“As with everything I share, I do not make any claims for the data. However, please note you may require some knowledge
of databases to be able to properly extrapolate information from this data set. If anyone can make a more accessible
version for the less technically inclined, ping it over to me and I will add it here.”
Anonymous already targeted the Turkish Government, in December 2015 it launched a number of cyberattacks on the Turkey’s internet, forcing the nation to shut down thousands of websites.
The Turkish authorities haven’t commented the incident.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Turkey, Anonymous)
Update February 19, 2016
“We download and examine this leaked data from his torrent but we found big similarities between another leaked data from December 2014. data from 2014 was sold 250 TRY in some illegal hack forums. It was popular since 03.08.2015 and some forum admins banned threads but someone could send this data to Cthulhu.” states Benzer Yazılar in a blog post.
“As it seen, data published approx. 5-6 months ago but some people says it was before than this.
Firstly we want compare this two data. We found hardly 2014 data from some private cloud accounts that shared in underground deepweb pages.
First of all I would like to specify that the data is not of Mernis systems are fully accrued in the year 2009 and 26 years later, but not necessarily all of the data to anyone.There is no indication that it was stolen from EGMWe don’t found any hints from Turkish Police (EGM) and “Mernis system” in this data.”
