
					Cisco Wireless LAN Controller affected by severe flaws. Patch it now					
Cisco has released security updates to fix several vulnerabilities in the Wireless LAN Controller (WLC) products. The Cisco Wireless LAN Controllers allow organizations to centrally manage, secure, and configure access points throughout their network infrastructure.
The HTTP Parsing Denial of Service Vulnerability (CVE-2016-1363) affection the Wireless LAN Controller could be exploited by a remote unauthenticated attacker to cause a buffer overflow and cause a DoS.
“A vulnerability in the HTTP URL redirect feature of Cisco Wireless LAN Controller (WLC) Software could allow an unauthenticated, remote attacker to cause a buffer overflow condition on an affected device, resulting in a denial of service (DoS) condition.” states the security advisory.
The flaw, rated as “critical” by CISCO, is caused by the improper handling of HTTP traffic and it affects WLC software versions 7.2, 7.3, 7.4 releases prior to 7.4.140.0(MD), 7.5, 7.6, and 8.0 releases prior to 8.0.115.0(ED).
Another DoS vulnerability (CVE-2016-1364) affects the Cisco Wireless LAN Controller and resides in the Bonjour task manager. An attacker can exploit it by sending specially crafted Bonjour traffic to a vulnerable device.

The flaw is rated as “high” and affects the CISCO  Wireless LAN Controller software versions 7.4 prior to 7.4.130.0(MD), 7.5, 7.6, and 8.0 releases prior to 8.0.110.0(ED).
“A vulnerability in the Bonjour task manager of Cisco Wireless LAN Controller (WLC) Software could allow an unauthenticated, remote attacker to cause a denial of service (DoS) condition on an affected device.”
A third flaw, rated as “high,” is affecting the Cisco Wireless LAN Controller is the CVE-2016-1362 and exists in the web-based management interface of devices running the AireOS software. A remote attacker can trigger the device reload by accessing a URL that is not supported by the management interface. Cisco WLC devices that are running AireOS releases 4.1 through 7.4.120.0, all 7.5 releases, and release 7.6.100.0 are affected.
“A vulnerability in the web-based management interface of Cisco Wireless LAN Controller (WLC) devices running Cisco AireOS Software could allow an unauthenticated, remote attacker to cause an affected device to reload, resulting in a denial of service (DoS) condition.” states the advisory.
Don’t waste time, apply the free software updates released by CISCO.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Cisco Wireless LAN Controller, security)
