
					Adobe fixed a Critical Code Execution issue in Flash Player					
The security updates also address a Critical Code Execution vulnerability in Flash Player tracked as CVE-2018-4944. The flaw is a critical type confusion that could be exploited to execute arbitrary code, the good news is that Adobe has rated the flaw with a rating of “2” because the company considers not imminent the development of exploit code.
The vulnerability affects Flash Player 29.0.0.140 and earlier versions and was addressed with the release of version 29.0.0.171 for Windows, Mac, Linux and Chrome OS.
The flaw is a critical type confusion that allows arbitrary code execution (CVE-2018-4944), but Adobe has assigned it a severity rating of “2,” which indicates that exploits are not considered imminent and there is no rush to install the update.
“Adobe has released security updates for Adobe Flash Player for Windows, Macintosh, Linux and Chrome OS. These updates address critical vulnerabilities in Adobe Flash Player 29.0.0.140 and earlier versions. Successful exploitation could lead to arbitrary code execution in the context of the current user.” reads the advisory published by Adobe.

Adobe also addressed three security vulnerabilities in the Creative Cloud desktop applications for Windows and macOS, the issues affect version 4.4.1.298 and earlier of the apps.
“Adobe has released a security update for the Creative Cloud Desktop Application for Windows and MacOS.” reads the advisory. 
“This update resolves a vulnerability in the validation of certificates used by Creative Cloud desktop applications (CVE-2018-4991), and an improper input validation vulnerability (CVE-2018-4992) that could lead to privilege escalation.” 
The flaws affecting the Creative Cloud desktop applications are:
All of the vulnerabilities received a priority rating of “2.”
Adobe also addressed an authentication bypass vulnerability affecting Connect versions 9.7.5 and earlier. The flaw rated as “important” could lead the exposure of sensitive information.
“An important authentication bypass vulnerability (CVE-2018-4994) exists in Adobe Connect versions 9.7.5 and earlier. Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could result in sensitive information disclosure.” reads the advisory.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Flash Player, Critical Code Execution)


