
					Anonymous will reveal names of about 1,000 KKK members					
The popular Anonymous collective has declared war to the white supremacy group Ku Klux Klan (KKK), the hacktivist has posted a video message on YouTube and a message on Twitter to announce that it is holding a list of names of the Klan members.

Anonymous confirmed that they hacked a Twitter account  and that obtained through it about 1000 klan member identities.
We’ve gained access to yet another KKK Twitter account. Using the info obtained, we will be revealing about 1000 klan member identities.
— Operation KKK (@Operation_KKK) 22 Ottobre 2015
“All will be revealed next month around the one year anniversary of #OpKKK,” it tweeted, under the handle @Operation_KKK. The Anonymous campaign dubbed #OpKKK has begun in November 2014 in response to the menaces that KKK members made against peaceful protesters in Ferguson. Ferguson (Missuri) has become the center of racial tensions after the officer Darren Wilson killed the 18-year-old black boy, Michael Brown, in August 2014. “You are more than extremists. You are more than a hate group,” states the Anonymous’s message.” “You operate much more like terrorists and you should be recognized as such. You are terrorists that hide your identities beneath sheets and infiltrate society on every level.” “The privacy of the Ku Klux Klan no longer exists in cyberspace. You’ve had blood on your hands for nearly 200 years.” Anonymous also announced the imminent disclosure of the identities of 1000 members of the KKK. 
“We will release, to the global public, the identities of up to 1,000 Klan members, Ghoul Squad affiliates and other close associates of various factions of the Ku Klux Klan across the United States.”
The Ghoul Squad is considered an organization belonging to the KKK. 
We’ve gained access to yet another KKK Twitter account. Using the info obtained, we will be revealing about 1000 klan member identities. — Operation KKK (@Operation_KKK) 22 Ottobre 2015

Stay Tuned …. this is just the beginning.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Anonymous #OpKKK, hacktivism, KKK)
