
					WiFox mobile app shows names and passwords for Wi-Fi airports networks worldwide					
Do you travel a lot? Probably you have already read about WiFox, it is a legitimate Android/iOS mobile app that includes indications of thousands of airport Wi-Fi networks and their passwords.
We have spoken several times about the risks for travelers about the usage of free Airport Wi-Fi hotspots, these networks represent attack vectors for hackers is users do not adopt necessary countermeasures.
The WiFox app was developed by the computer security engineer Anil Polat, who first created a map of free internet and Wi-Fi passwords at airports around the world, then decided to design the mobile app.
“I’ll show you the tips, tricks and tech you can use to travel smarter,” said Polat.

The author of the WiFox was not thinking about the security of free Airport Wi-Fi hotspots evidently, but he was worried about their slow connections and the high-prices of paid. For this reason, WiFox was designed as a huge container of network names and passwords for airports worldwide, the vast majority of the airport Wi-Fi networks are located in lounges or restaurants.
“WiFox is a continually updated map of airport and lounge wifi passwords from around the world. In map view, you can tap any wifi icon where wireless information is available, and use the button to copy the password to the clipboard. The map is available offline (when you download the appropriate Google Maps) so you don’t need an Internet connection to use WiFox when you’re traveling.” reads the description available on the Google Play store.
WiFox costs just $2, the list of Airport Wi-Fi hotspots in continuously updated, including the passwords. Many users have already tested the app, some of them reported technical glitch but confirmed passwords are valid.

Giving a look at the list we can notice that WiFox missed some important locations such as the Charles de Gaulle airport in France, meanwhile for other prominent airports like Heathrow and LaGuardia are reported no more of two hotspots.
The WiFox implements a reputation mechanism leverages on the votes and comments provided by the users.
It also includes timed networks and a few tips on how to get around time restrictions to use them.
Watch out, even if you are using a Wi-Fi protected by password doesn’t mean that you are totally secure on such kind of networks.
As usual, let me suggest:
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Airport Wi-Fi hotspots, WiFox)
