
					Megaupload files deleted by LeaseWeb					
Megaupload files have been deleted by LeaseWeb, a Dutch hosting provider, without notice, the news is shocking if we consider the wealth of information contained in the files. LeaseWeb is based in Germany and has subsidiaries also in the United States, the company. Megaupload founder, Kim Dotcom, is shocked, he commented the event with a meaningful statement
“The greatest massacre data of history”

Megaupload was the biggest file-sharing site, its main fault is to have harmed the interests of too many companies worldwide proposing offering a platform for free sharing that were shut down by the United States Department of Justice on 19 January 2012, following the indictment and arrests of the owners for allegedly operating as an organization dedicated to copyright infringement.
“Prosecutors accuse them of racketeering by facilitating massive copyright fraud. Dotcom says he’s innocent and can’t be held responsible for those who chose to use Megaupload to illegally download songs or movies.”
In this day are circulating images of the raid of law enforcement for the arrest of Kim Dotcom, it is evident the use of disproportionate means to stop a man who I would not have escaped the police, but the images are disturbing, a full-scale raid reminiscent of military operations views on the occasion of the capture of dangerous fugitives or terrorists.

 
Is Kim Dotcom a fugitive? Is he a terrorist? Why all this fury?
LeaseWeb is a Dutch hosting provider with centers in Germany and subsidiaries in the United States. The company has wiped all the files of Megaupload stored on its servers “without notice”. The event is not a fortuity, but it is a premeditated action that raises many doubts especially if we consider that there is a process ongoing.
Imagine that in a process the authorities destroy the body of proof, it makes no sense in an ideal world. Personally I believe that this file has been backuped several times before the cancellation, the questions are …
Who keeps these copies? What is contained in those files?
LeaseWeb announced Thursday it had deleted all Megaupload files from 630 servers, curious that it declared that maintained the data for over a year without receiving any requests to retain it, the affirmation is in contradiction to what declared by Dotcom that said through Twitter that his lawyers repeatedly requested LeaseWeb to keep the data pending U.S. Court proceedings.
“Megaupload and EFF sent robust data preservation demands to Leaseweb to maintain all user data during the pendency of the”
 
 
The FBI seized all Dotcom’s data and according the founder of Megaupload it hasn’t given him a copy yet. Some Megaupload files remain stored on U.S. servers, we hope they are treated with greater respect and justice take its course.
The fury of the authorities against Dotcom is really abnormal, even the behavior of the hosting provider is suspect, just that with LeaseWeb Megaupload had gained so much.
I leave you with a thought provoking … What if in that mountain of files there was hidden also some confidential U.S. Government documents?
Is it possible that KimDotcom knows an inconvenient truth and that Us government is trying to scare him?
What if Megaupload was used a for other reasons?
Steganography, intelligence, state-sponsored hackers … Are all familiar words, today all security experts are aware that compromising a wide audience service it is possible to attack a huge quantity of users. What else is Megaupload was used for watering hole attacks, or to spread a malicious agent, and the proof are hidden in the destroyed documents?
Cool … I can use it in my next book.
Do you think I’m paranoid? … Prism case should be an example, and it is only the tip of the iceberg.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Megaupload, Kim Dotcom)
