
					Law enforcement arrested operators behind the MegalodonHTTP Botnet					
In December, Norway law enforcement arrested five people accused of running the MegalodonHTTP Remote Access Trojan (RAT) as part of a joint operation between Norway’s Kripos National Criminal Investigation Service and Europol, codenamed “OP Falling sTAR.”
According to the Damballa security firm, the suspects were operating in Romania, France, and Norway and were charged with possessing, using and selling malware.
“Damballa’s threat discovery center worked in cooperation with the Norway police over the last few months to track and identify the author of the malware dubbed MegalodonHTTP,”threat researcher Loucif Kharouni wrote in a blog post.
“We are not at liberty to divulge the MegalodonHTTP author’s real identity, but we can confirm that the person behind the handle Bin4ry is no longer active or doing business.”
The men arrested by the law enforcement aged between 16 and 24 years, one of them already confessed to have operated a website which was offering for sale malware.
MegalodonHTTP is a Remote Access Trojan (RAT) that could be used by attackers to take over victims’s machines and exfiltrate sensitive data. According to the experts, the MegalodonHTTP is not a sophisticated threat, among the major flaws the need for the presence of the .Net framework on the infected machine.
“Damballa’s threat discovery center worked in cooperation with the Norway police over the last few months to track and identify the author of the malware dubbed MegalodonHTTP,”threat researcher Loucif Kharouni wrote in a blog post.
“We are not at liberty to divulge the MegalodonHTTP author’s real identity, but we can confirm that the person behind the handle Bin4ry is no longer active or doing business.”
Below the list of features implemented MegalodonHTTP:
The author was offering 2 different packages, at a cost of $35 and $100 respectively.
Package 1
Package 2
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – MegalodonHTTP, law enforcement)
