
					MAGENTO 2.0.16 and 2.1.9 security update fixes critical flaw in the platform					
Magento released updates for Magento Commerce and Open Source 2.1.9 and 2.0.16 that fixed numerous flaws, including a critical remote code execution vulnerability.
The remote code execution flaw impacts content management system (CMS) and layouts, it could be exploited by an administrator with limited privileges to add malicious code when creating a new CMS page.
“A Magento administrator with limited privileges can introduce malicious code when creating a new CMS Page, which could result in arbitrary remote code execution.” states the security advisory.
The vulnerability affects Magento Open Source prior to 1.9.3.6, Magento Commerce prior to 1.14.3.6, Magento 2.0 prior to 2.0.16, and Magento 2.1 prior to 2.1.9 and has been addressed in Magento Open Source 1.9.3.6, Magento Commerce 1.14.3.6, SUPEE-10266, Magento 2.0.16, and Magento 2.1.9.
The company also addresses three High severity vulnerabilities affecting Magento 2.0 prior to 2.0.16 and Magento 2.1 prior to 2.1.9.
The list of the flaws includes a cross-site request forgery (CSRF) issue, an unauthorized data leak, and authenticated Admin user remote code execution vulnerability.
“Magento Commerce and Open Source 2.1.9 and 2.0.16 contain multiple security enhancements that help close cross-site request forgery (CSRF), unauthorized data leak, and authenticated Admin user remote code execution vulnerabilities. These releases also include support for the changes to the USPS shipping rates that the USPS introduced on September 1, 2017.” states the advisory.
The update also addresses a total of 28 Medium risk vulnerabilities, including abuse of functionality, information leak, Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF), Cross-Site Scripting (XSS, stored), unvalidated redirection, remote code execution, insufficient session expiration, Denial of Service (DoS), and Insecure Direct Object Reference (IDOR).
The exploitation of the flaws opens the door to various attacks, including Man-in-the-middle attacks, redirection of the users to an external site, or re-usage of cookies.

Other vulnerabilities can be exploited by local admins to the sitemap generation tool to arbitrarily overwrite sensitive files; inject code or executable scripts; inject code in sales order records to launch XSS attack on anyone that views the page; create URLs for CSRF attacks; add new SVG images that contain injected code; or modify page counter to cause an integer overflow preventing the creation of new pages.
The company also fixed two Low-risk vulnerabilities, a bug in account lockout mechanism, which leaks a site’s contact e-mail, and an IDOR that allows a logged-in user to modify order fields that they do not have permission to view.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – eCommerce, RCE)
