
					Turkish officers are in contact with members of the ISIS					
According to a report  published by the Turkey’s Cumhuriyet daily,  Turkish authorities are in communication with members of the dreaded members of the Islamic State. The report cites an investigation by the Ankara Chief Prosecutor’s office which collected evidence of the alleged cooperation with the ISIS by  eavesdropping on phone calls.
The discovery was accidental, the Ankara Chief Prosecutor’s office was investigating  investigation into six missing Turkish citizens last year, the investigators believed they might have joined the ISIS militia in the area.
The authorities launched an investigation on 27 suspects, some of them in Syria.
“Prosecutors Derda Gökmen, sued about 27 suspects. Gökmen, “listening on the grounds that emerged during another crime” he has launched a separate investigation” the Cumhuriyet reported. 
The Chief Prosecutor’s office was authorized to wiretap the phones of 19 suspects, the investigators speculate they had an important role in the case by putting the six missing persons in touch with the Islamic State.

The investigation discovered a recruiting network, the wannabe militants received an “ideological training” to join into the organization.
“Those [who joined ISIS] from Ankara often used [the] Elbeyli district [of Kilis] as a throughway by traveling via Gaziantep and Kilis to the village of Able, which is subordinated to Syria’s Al-Bab district,” the report said, as cited by newspaper Today’s Zaman.
The information gathered during the investigation has been handed over to the Military Prosecutor’s office in March, because the Ankara Prosecutor’s office deemed the issue outside of its jurisdiction.
The Cumhuriyet also published some of the transcripts for the wiretapping, one of them allegedly states that the person indicated with the “X2” is a member of the military.
—Yes, brother.
X2: We are on the mined land where I delivered the vehicle. We have put our lights on. [We have the] material on us; come here with your men from that side…
The Turkish government has long been accused by opposition parties of inertia against the ISIS in Turkey. The Turkish authorities are not contrasting the ISIS militia through Turkey’s border with Syria.
A recent report revealed that the Turkey is acquiring oil from the ISIS that are offering the precious commodity at low prices.
Most smuggled ISIS oil goes to Turkey, sold at low prices – Norwegian report https://t.co/ZsxKy1QEmV pic.twitter.com/Jjrc2VnoPf
— RT (@RT_com) 20 Dicembre 2015

The Russian Defense Ministry also released evidence of the illegal oil trade by IS with the support of the Turkey authorities, despite Ankara has denied the allegations.
Russian intelligence has recently spotted up to 12,000 tankers and trucks on the Turkish-Iraqi border.

“The [aerial] imagery was made in the vicinity of Zakho (a city in Iraqi Kurdistan), there were 11,775 tankers and trucks on both sides of the Turkish-Iraqi border,” Lieutenant-General Sergey Rudskoy told journalists on Friday.
“Heavy-duty trucks loaded with oil continue to cross the Turkish-Syrian border as well, Rudskoy said. At the same time, the number of tankers on the northern and western routes used for transporting oil from Syria is declining, the general added.” reported RT.com.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – ISIS, Turkey)
