
					4 Possible Ways to Make Your Browser Hacker-Proof					
Browsers have long been a hot target of numerous hacking-related incidents. They are the primary source of hacking incidents as we search, share, watch and download files from browsers. Moreover, various vulnerabilities exists in browsers, emphasizing the fact of using necessary tools to make your browser hacker-proof.
Ensuring that browsers are secured with the essential protocols is important. After all, hackers are becoming exceedingly experienced, penetrating into numerous prominent companies and government agencies this year alone as witnessed from the WannaCry ransomware cyberattack.
Although web browsers do a good job at ensuring security loopholes are rectified as early as possible, but more often than not, some updates arrive late and you can’t rely on them alone. It could be that your browser isn’t updating or you’ve got extensions and plugins installed that have potential security loopholes.
To ensure your online safety, we’ve come up with four online security tips that will help keep your browser safe hackers.
Keeping your browser updated is the easiest way to ensure the safety of your browser. Browser updates carry necessary patches which secure you against hacking incidents and make your browser hack-proof on the web.
Google Chrome, Firefox and Opera come packed with default settings for automatic updates. You need to click the ‘install updates automatically’ option for uninterrupted and smooth connectivity.

Fortunately, most browsers these days are automatically updated. For instance, if you installed Microsoft’s new Windows 10 operating system, its default setting is to automatically update your software and issue patches, including for its Edge browser.
No matter how secure your browser might get, third-party plug-ins can never be completely trusted as plug-ins can read, make changes and access the websites you visit.
There are some plug-ins that come with the browser and might never be used. So, one way to give yourself an extra layer of protection is to delete unneeded plug-ins.
There is a misconception regarding plug-ins and extensions. While plug-ins handle video or other content that the browser does not support, extensions are small programs that add new features to your browser and personalize your browsing experience.
You can find numerous extensions on Google Chrome and Firefox which enhance your online browsing functionality. Having said that, extensions have their disadvantages. Some extensions need passwords so they can work to their full potential. That leaves an open door to hackers and other cyber criminals who install malware.
While installing an extension, be mindful of the source – trustworthiness of the maker. You can read reviews for authenticity.
When it comes to making your browser hack-proof, no other tool does it better than a VPN extension. This extension promises fast speed internet capability and does not maintain any logs of its users. In addition, you can evade censorship laws in any country by connecting to a server maintained in another country – all while being anonymous on the web.
There are numerous extensions that provide strong features needed to make the browser hacker-proof such as blocking ads, dodging online trackers, safeguarding against malware & providing WebRTC leak protection. With a Chrome VPN extension, you get an encrypted connection which masks your physical IP with a virtual IP – maintaining your online secrecy.
About Author: Anas Baig
Anas Baig is a Cyber Security Expert, a computer science graduate specializing in internet security, science, and technology. Also, a Security Professional with a passion for robots & IoT devices. Follow him on Twitter
Follow him on Twitter @anasbaigdm, or email him directly by clicking here.
 
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – browser hacker-proof, hacking)
