
					The blackmarket Silk Road 3.0 emerged from the Dark Web					
We all know that Silk Road was one of the greatest black marketplaces in the criminal underground, but many ignore that someone is still running the fourth iteration of the popular black market (previous are Silk Road, Silk Road 2.0, Silk Road Reloaded), Silk Road 3.0.
It was announced recently on Reddit and other crime forums, it is being managed by the same by the administrator of the Crypto Market black market.

The access to the Silk Road 3.0 black market is very easy, the registration is open and it is easy to note the number of illegal goods offered for sale is growing day by day.
Silk Road first appeared online back in February 2011, it operated until the FBI seized it and arrested its main operator Ross Ulbricht, who has since been sentenced to life in prison. A second iteration, Silk Road 2.0 appeared on the dark web a few months later the seizure of the original black markets, but the US law enforcement immediately shut down it and arrested Blake “Defcon” Benthall, the alleged operator of the popular underground black market.
In January 2015, a third incarnation of the black market dubbed Silk Road Reloaded appeared in the dark web, it implemented new anonymizing features, including I2P connectivity and the possibility to pay for the goods with several virtual currencies, including Bitcoin, Darkcoin, Dogecoin, and Anoncoin.
The marketplace closed very soon because it was not able to attract users.
What will happen to the new born market?
Difficult to say, the evolution of the Silk Road brand in the last years suggests that it could be a new commercial failure. Many experts consider the Silk Road saga ended, this new black market is not related to the original one, but we cannot ignore the association with Crypto Market, which is considered in the criminal community a reliable market.
The onion address for the Silk Road 3.0 is
http://reloadedudjtjvxr.onion
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Silk Road 3, BlackMarket)
