
					TESCO thousands shopping account credentials leaked online					
Tesco has recently confirmed to have suffered a data breach, the cybercriminals have hit the company on Valentine’s Day compromising the account of thousands of online clients.
The news was reported by The Guardian, the hackers obtained login credentials for thousands of accounts that have been deactivated by the Tesco in response to the incident. This isn’t the first time when Tesco suffers a data breach, in 2013 hundreds of Tesco Clubcard users found their online accounts had been compromised.
“It was suggested at the time that the Clubcard hacks were also caused by account holders using the same username and password combination on other compromised sites and services.” reported the Guardian.
Attackers hit the Tesco.com website and a list of over 2,240 shopping accounts was posted online on the Pastebin by unknown hackers. 

  The list reports online shopping accounts, personal details and includes also Tesco Clubcard vouchers.  It is still not clear how the hackers obtained the data published on pastebin, some experts hyphotisized that the data resulted as collection from other data breach and the cyber criminals used the same credentials also to access on the Tesco shopping portal with success. Is confirmed the wrong habit to share credentials over different services has caused the exposure also for Tesco accounts. The security expert Troy Hunt, who previously criticized Tesco for sending passwords in plain text via email, commented on is blog the incident with following statements:
The recent incidents to US retailers Target and Neiman Marcus demonstrated how  much danger a data breach could be in the business of company and for its reputation. Who will acquire again on Tesco.com? The user must be informed of the risks related to an attack of e-commerce platforms and they need to be informed on the mitigation technique adopted by retailers and online shopping portals to protect their customers.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  Tesco, databreach)
