
					President Donald Trump Fires the FBI Director James Comey					
The news has shocked the media, President Donald Trump has fired the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, James Comey. The most popular opinion is that Comey was fired due to the FBI’s investigation into alleged links between Trump and Russia.
Last Wednesday, Comey testified before Congress about the role of the Kremlin in influencing the 2016 US Presidential election with cyber attacks against the DNC.
The way Comey was informed was absurd, he was making a speech in Los Angeles when he received the news.

According to The White House, Comey was fired on the “clear recommendation” of Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein and Attorney General Jeff Sessions, officially because the official was no longer able to lead the bureau effectively.
“While I greatly appreciate you informing me, on three separate occasions, that I am not under investigation, I nevertheless concur with the judgment of the Department of Justice that you are not able to effectively lead the Bureau,” Trump wrote in a termination letter to the FBI Director.

The US deputy attorney general Rod Rosenstein explained that Comey was fired due to the way the FBI investigated into the case related to the disclosure of the Hillary Clinton‘s emails.
The US deputy attorney Rosenstein also blamed Comey for his decision to close this investigation without prosecution.
The Rosenstein’s memo did not explicitly refer the investigation conducted by the FBI on the cyber attacks against US politicians during the 2016 US Presidential election.
The Trump’s decision was criticized by the media and of course by the US Democrats, who defined the decision a “Nixonian” move.
Democrats speculate that Comey’s firing is linked to alleged support offered by Russian APT groups.
Tim Kaine, Senator from Virginia and former Democratic vice presidential nominee, said the Comey’s firing proved “how frightened the Admin is over Russia investigation,” arguing that the firing was “part of a growing pattern by White House to cover-up the truth.”


Below a Tweet shared by the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU):

Below the opinion of the NSA whistleblower, Edward Snowden, who condemn the termination:

Trump has appointed FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe to serve as an interim FBI director.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – FBI Director, James Comey)
