
					Oracle issues emergency patches for JOLTANDBLEED flaws					
Oracle issued an emergency patch for vulnerabilities affecting several of its products that rely on the proprietary Jolt protocol.
The vulnerabilities were reported by experts at ERPScan who named the set of five vulnerabilities JoltandBleed.
The most critical flaw was rated with the highest CVSS base score of 9.9 and even 10.0, according to the experts it may be exploited over a network without the need for a valid username and password.
The JoltandBleed issues affect the Jolt server within Oracle Tuxedo that is used by numerous Oracle’s products, including Oracle PeopleSoft. An attacker can exploit the vulnerabilities to gain full access to all data stored in the following ERP systems:
Below the complete list of the JoltandBleed vulnerabilities discovered by the expert:
The flaw ties the way Jolt Handler (JSH) processes a command with opcode 0x32
“This error is originated with that how Jolt Handler processes a command with opcode 0x32. If the package structure is incorrect, a programmer has to provide a Jolt client with a certain Jolt response indicating there is an error in the communication process,” continues ERPScan.
Oracle made the patches available Tuesday for Oracle Fusion Middleware, which address all vulnerabilities.

The vulnerability was caused by a coding mistake in a function call that was responsible for packing data to transmit.
“The confusion was between 2 functions, jtohi and htoji. Consequently, packing of a constant package length that must be 0x40 bytes is actually 0x40000000,” said ERPScan.
“Then a client initiates the transmission of 0x40000000 bytes of data. Manipulating the communication with the client, an attacker can achieve a stable work of a server side and sensitive data leakage. Initiating a mass of connections, the hacker passively collects the internal memory of the Jolt server,”
The vulnerability causes the leakage of credentials when a user enters them through the web interface of PeopleSoft systems.
Technically, the flaw is a memory leakage vulnerability similar to HeartBleed so it can be used to retrieve a user password and other sensitive data.
“One of the possible attacks besides an obvious theft of employees data is for students to hack Campus Solutions and modify or delete payment orders for their education or gain financial aid. This attack as well as other details was demonstrated today at the DeepSec Security conference in Vienna.” said ErpScan.
Below the video PoC published by ErpScan:

According to Oracle the CVE-2017-10272 memory disclosure vulnerability is easy to exploit and allows a low privileged attacker with network access via Jolt to compromise Oracle Tuxedo.
“Vulnerability in the Oracle Tuxedo component of Oracle Fusion Middleware (subcomponent: Core). Supported versions that are affected are 11.1.1, 12.1.1, 12.1.3 and 12.2.2. Easily exploitable vulnerability allows low privileged attacker with network access via Jolt to compromise Oracle Tuxedo.” wrote Oracle. “While the vulnerability is in Oracle Tuxedo, attacks may significantly impact additional products. Successful attacks of this vulnerability can result in unauthorized creation, deletion or modification access to critical data or all Oracle Tuxedo accessible data as well as unauthorized access to critical data or complete access to all Oracle Tuxedo accessible data and unauthorized ability to cause a partial denial of service (partial DOS) of Oracle Tuxedo.”
Pierluigi Paganini 
(Security Affairs – JoltandBleed, hacking)
