
					Alleged Anonymous members leaked 13000 credentials for popular websites					

The hackers published a text document, containing the stolen credentials, to the Internet file-sharing website Ghostbin. In time I’m writing the list of usernames and password has been removed, the experts that viewed the file confirmed that it contains also users’ credit card numbers and expiration dates.
It’s not clear when the data was stolen, anyway if the stolen record are valid it is another blow to the image of Sony and Microsoft. The Play Station Network and Xbox live service were brought down by the hackers of Lizard Squad on Christmas day, the reputation of both companies was seriously compromised. Nearly Xbox’s 48 million subscribers and PlayStation’s 110 million users were not able to access the services of the companies.
The complete list is available on PasteBin at the following URL:
http://pastebin.com/st7fHJeR
I believe that the hackers haven’t compromised the websites related to the stolen credentials. It is likely that the hacktivists have obtained them using a data stealer malware installed on victims’ machines  ( but this is out of the TTPs adopted by Anonymous members), but I think that the cache of credentials was obtained through the data breach of computers of a different criminal crew.
The Daily Dot also reported that some Anonymous members have denied any involvement of the popular group Anonymous. Doing a few searches on the Internet I found a post on PasteBin that sustains that stolen data are fake, below an abstract of its content that speculate on the alleged sources:
It is important to understand the reason why these guys are disclosing fake data. Fake information causes damage to the reputation of the Anonymous collective, which will be the reaction of the main collective? Someone wants to throw mud on them to destroy their credibility.
In any case take care of your credentials, as precaution you can change your passwords for the impacted services, use different credentials for any web service also monitor your banking account paying attention to suspicious credit card transactions.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  Anonymous, data leakage)
