
					Experts discovered other applications using the same Superfish Komodia library					
Matt Richard security researcher from Facebook revealed that The Social Network has discovered at least ten more software applications using the Komodia library that allow Superfish adware traffic hijacking capabilities.
Komodia installs a self-signed root CA certificate that allows the library to eavesdrop HTTPS traffic through SSL Hijacking.
Richard explained that Facebook and the Carnegie Mellon University started in 2012 an initiative to “measure how prevalent SSL MITM was in the wild”.
By analogy, Superfish uses the same private key across all clients, but in the case of the popular adware the root certificate appears be installed on more clients than those “behind the vulnerable DPI devices.”
Richard reported that the bogus digital certificates issued by Superfish to spy on Facebook used weak 1024-bit RSA keys and were signed by the universal root certificate.
“The fake Facebook entity certificates issued by Superfish used weak 1024-bit RSA keys and were directly signed by the universal root certificate with no intermediate certificates in the chain. In contrast to corporate firewalls that also install local root certificates into an employee’s machine for traffic filtering purposes, one of the characteristics of SSL interceptions performed by malware is that it is widespread across the world. ” states the post published by Facebook.
Richard avoided commenting motivations behind the SSL traffic interception operated by the different applications.
“We can’t say for certain what the intentions of these applications are, but none appear to explain why they intercept SSL traffic or what they do with data,”
The experts from Facebook analyzed the number of SSL connections intercepted by Superfish for Windows clients worldwide. Richard explained that also a strain of Trojan.Nurjax malware detected by experts at Symantec uses the Komodia library.

Richard confirmed that the same Komodia library was used by many other applications, the complete list of certificate issuers includes:
Richard explained that the Komodia library is quite easy to detect.
“In our research, we found that the software that installs the root CA contains a number of easily searchable attributes that enabled us to match up the certificates we see in the wild with the actual software. These functions, which are Windows PE exports, include ‘CertInstallAll’, ‘GetCertPEMDLL’, ‘InstallFirefoxDirectory’, ‘SetCertDLL’, and ‘SetLogFunctionDLL.’ Most of these libraries are designed to work on Windows 8 and will not install on older operating systems.” Richard said.
The experts at Facebook also provided a list of SHA1 hashes that could be used for the detection of malicious software in the wild, which contains the Komodia library:
“We’re publishing this analysis to raise awareness about the scope of local SSL MITM software so that the community can also help protect people and their computers,” Richard wrote. “We think that shining the light on these practices will help the ecosystem better analyze and respond to similar situations as they occur.“
Lenovo, with the support of Microsoft and McAfee, has developed a removal tool to clean its laptop and delete the Superfish malware.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  Lenovo, Superfish)
