
					Social media and digital identity. Prevention and incident response					
Social media, cloud computing and mobile are technologies that most of all attract cybercriminals due their high penetration, exploiting this channels attackers could access to the huge amount of data belonging to a wide audience. Almost every netizen has one or more social media accounts, and it often have been hacked.
The 2013 Norton Report confirmed that social media are considered a relevant source of problems due risky behaviors of users, 12% of the users revealed that someone has hacked their account. The  report shows that in 39% of cases users don’t log out after each session and 25% share social media credentials and one in three accept request form unknowns.
These risky practices are very dangerous and are considerable as the primary cause of the increment of cyber attacks, on the other side cyber criminals are adopting hacking techniques even more sophisticated.
Cybercrime and cyber espionage are the primary cause of attacks against social media platforms, one of the most blatant was the attack on Facebook against the account of NATO’S most senior commander.

Hackers could compromise a social media account in various ways, they could use malware, conduct a spear phishing campaign,  compromise a third party application or with other social engineering techniques.
A few hours ago social sharing service Buffer was victim of a cyber attacks that caused the abuse of numerous unaware social network accounts.
I’ve written many articles in the past to explain how to protect our digital exposure on social media managing with care what we disclose on these powerful platforms and how to avoid ugly surprises.
How to discover that a social media account has been compromised and what to?
In some cases it is quite easy to discover that a social media account has been compromised because immediately hackers abuse of it sending out messages to the networks of contacts, in other cases this not happen and the attack is more insidious because attackers could maintain the control of the account for a long time to operate in stealthy mode. The signals that portend an account being compromised are:
What can you do to avoid being compromised or exploited?
What to do the account has been compromised?
Following simple recommendations to follow:
If the user is not able to perform the password reset procedure the last option is to request the support of social media contact center via email or phone.
Concluding …. be sure to properly protect your social media account, a few simple practices could avoid giving attackers the keys of our digital identity.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Social Media, security)
