
					Comey hearing: Former FBI director talks about Russia interference in US Presidential Election					
Former FBI Director James Comey today declared he has “no doubt” about the involvement of the Russian government in the cyber attacks against the Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign and the Democratic Party.

When Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) posed the question, “Do you have any doubt that the Russian government was behind the intrusions” of the email accounts, Comey replied: “No, no doubt,” reported the Washington Post.
Comey also added that there is no indication of alleged tampering of the ballots.
“I’d seen no indication of that whatsoever” before he was dismissed last month, Comey added.
According to The Washington Post, Comey also said that President Trump never asked him to abandon the investigation nor that any government official asked him to cover up the case and suspend the investigation.
“No,” he told Burr.

Former FBI Director James B. Comey explained he was surprised by the Trump’s behavior that has always appreciated his work at the Bureau.
Comey was surprised to hear Trump saying that he fired the Director while thinking about Russia.
“Comey also said he was surprised to hear the White House claim he was dismissed for his handling of the Hillary Clinton email probe.” states the Washington Post.
“The administration then chose to defame me and more importantly the FBI by saying that the organization was in disarray,” Comey said. “That it was poorly led. That the workforce had lost confidence in its leader. Those were lies, plain and simple.”
When asked why President Trump suddenly fired him last month, Comey explained that Russian investigation may have has a significant role.
“It’s my judgment that I was fired because of the Russia investigation,” Comey said. “I was fired in some way to change, or the endeavor was to change, the way the Russia investigation was being conducted.”

“The administration then chose to defame me and more importantly the FBI by saying that the organization was in disarray, that it was poorly led,” Comey said. “Those were lies, plain and simple. And I’m so sorry that the FBI workforce had to hear them, and I’m so sorry the American people were told them.’”
 
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Comey hearing, Trump)
