
					Cisco releases multiple Security Updates, it fixed a nasty RCE in WebEx Meetings servers					
Cisco has issued a patch to address the remote code execution flaw (CVE-2016-1482) that affects company WebEx Meetings servers.
The remote code execution flaw (CVE-2016-1482) could be exploited by remote, unauthenticated attackers to execute arbitrary commands on WebEx Meetings servers.
It is crucial for system administrators to apply the patch before hackers would exploit the vulnerability in attacks against their systems, Cisco highlighted that there is no workaround to mitigate the issue.
“A vulnerability in Cisco WebEx Meetings Server could allow an unauthenticated, remote attacker to bypass security restrictions on a host located in a DMZ and inject arbitrary commands on a targeted system,” Cisco reported in a security advisory.
As explained by the company the vulnerability in WebEx servers is the result of an insufficient sanitization of the user data. The attackers can exploit it to inject arbitrary commands into application scripts and compromise WebEx Meetings servers.
“The vulnerability is due to insufficient sanitization of user-supplied data processed by the affected software. An attacker could exploit this vulnerability by injecting arbitrary commands into existing application scripts running on a targeted device located in a DMZ [and] could allow an attacker to execute arbitrary commands on the device with elevated privileges.”
According to the advisory published by the company, Cisco WebEx Meetings Server version 2.6 is vulnerable to attacks that trigger the flaw.

Cisco also addressed other security issues in its products, including Denial of service flaws that affect Cisco’s Web Security Appliance, WebEx Meetings server, IOS XE software, and carrier routing system.
Another vulnerability affects that WebEx server, tracked as CVE-2016-1483 and rated as “high,” it is the result of the improper validation of user accounts by specific services.
“An unauthenticated, remote attacker could exploit this vulnerability by repeatedly attempting to access a specific service, causing the system to perform computationally intensive tasks and resulting in a denial of service attack condition.” 
The US-CERT has published a warning of Cisco Releases Security Updates, inviting users to apply the necessary updates.
Below the complete list published by the US-CERT:
Hurry up, update your system now!
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – CISCO, RCE)
