
					#OpBrussells Anonymous ‘s revenge on ISIS after Brussels attacks					
Anonymous has published a video threatening revenge on the IS after the tragic events in Brussels.
The video shows a spokesman of the hacker collective vowed to track down the members of the radical group online.
Anonymous is calling an action to find information on ISIS members online, disclose any information regarding their identity, steal their Bitcoins, and destroy their propaganda online by hacking the websites and the social media account used by the terrorists.
The masked man in the video announced a new operation dubbed #opbrussels and #opbelgium against the Islamic State and its online activities.
“Most of you know that Belgium was hit by terrorists on 22nd of March, 2016. Our freedom is once again under attack, this can’t continue,” said the man in the video presenting the #OpBrusselles.

“We will keep hacking their websites, shutting down their Twitter accounts, and stealing their bitcoins. To the supporters of Daesh [IS, formerly ISIS/ISIL]: we will track you down, we will find you, we are everywhere and we are more than you can imagine. Be afraid.”
Anonymous vowed to “strike back against” Islamic State, they announced they said they won’t “rest as long as terrorists continue their actions around the world.”
Anonymous said that the ISIS killed innocent people in a cowardly attack, the group is calling for a global action against the terrorism online.
[terrorists killed] “innocent civilians in Belgium they hit everybody in Europe” and that’s why the hacktivists have to “fight back.” They added they invite all people to battle terrorism.
“But you don’t have to hack them. If you stand up against discrimination in your country you harm them much more than by hacking their websites. The Islamic state can’t recruit Muslims in Europe if they are accepted and included in the society.”

Anonymous launched a similar initiative after the Paris attacks, recently members of the group have published a video claiming they “fought daily against terrorism” and “silenced thousands of Twitter accounts directly linked to ISIS” since November.
“We severely punished Daesh on the darknet, hacked their electronic portfolio, and stole money from the terrorists. We have laid siege to your propaganda websites, tested them with our cyber-attacks.”
Anonymous has hacked several social media accounts belonging to the ISIS, leaked their information, and defaced IS-supporting websites.
Pierluigi Paganini
Security Affairs –  (ISIS, Anonymous, #opBrussels )
