
					UK police arrested teenage hacker who allegedly hacked CIA and FBI officials					
The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and British law enforcement have identified and arrested a teenage hacker alleged member of the hacking crew “Cracka with Attitude.” The Cracka with Attitude is the group of hackers that targeted high-level officials of the US Government, including the CIA director and the FBI Deputy Director.
The law enforcement agencies have arrested a 16-year-old British teenager, but they haven’t revealed his identity. According to the South East Regional Organised Crime Unit (SEROCU), the young hackers is the leader of the Cracka With Attitude group, he named himself Cracka.

“Authorities in East Midlands, England, arrested a 16-year-old boy on Tuesday for allegedly hacking the personal email account of the CIA director and releasing the personal information of 31,000 government agents.” states a blog post published by the DailyDot. 
“The hacker known as “cracka” was arrested on multiple counts of suspicion of conspiracy to commit unauthorized access to computer material, the South East Regional Organised Crime Unit told the Daily Dot via email.”
According to the report, Cracka is also responsible for the recent disclosure of personal information of 31,000 government agents, including data of FBI agents, Department of Homeland Security (DHS) officers and DoJ employees.
Cracka used the account “@DotGovz” on Twitter to publish online the sensitive data.
The Cracka with Attitude team always expressed its support to the Palestine, they hacked US Government entities due to its support to the Israeli politics.
“The South East Regional Organised Crime Unit (SEROCU) can confirm we have arrested a [16]-year-old boy on Tuesday (9/2) in the East Midlands on suspicion of conspiracy to commit Unauthorised access to computer material contrary to Section 1 Computer Misuse Act 1990, conspiracy to commit unauthorised access with intent to commit further offences contrary to Section 2 Computer Misuse Act 1990 and conspiracy to commit unauthorised acts with intent to impair, or with recklessness as to impairing operation of a computer contrary to Section 3 Computer Misuse Act 1990.”
Is the young hacker the famous Cracka? 
On Wednesday, Motherboard reached the teenager accused of being Cracka.
“I got fucking v& (means arrested),” he told Motherboard “They’re trying to ruin my life.”
The teenager confirmed the police arrested him for the crimes charged to Cracka. 
The alleged hacker refused to answer any questions from the police and was released on bail. He denied being Cracka.
 “I’m not who you think I am   ;)” he said. “I’m innocent until proven guilty so I have nothing to be worried about,” 
Stay Tuned.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – CIA Director, email hacking)
