
					Russian Hackers accessed President Barack Obama emails					
Earlier this month, US officials admitted there was a cyber “event” late last year, but refused to confirm reports Russia was behind the attack.
New revelations on the attack against the unclassified network at White House confirms that the violation was “far more intrusive and worrisome” than publicly acknowledged.
Security experts have no doubts, Russian state-sponsored hackers have breached the unclassified network accessing sensitive information, including Obama Emails and President’s agenda.
Many classified meetings of the US President are usually confined to the a limited number of staffers, and hackers accessed them.
US officials confirmed that hackers who breached the White House are the same that hacked the systems at the State Department. The New York  Times confirmed that the hackers gained the access to email servers used by the White House staff, including employees in constant contact with President Obama.
“But officials have conceded that the unclassified system routinely contains much information that is considered highly sensitive: schedules, email exchanges with ambassadors and diplomats, discussions of pending personnel moves and legislation, and, inevitably, some debate about policy,” reported the Times.
The experts explained that there is no evidence that hackers compromised any classified network neither the servers that control the message traffic from Obama’s BlackBerry.

Despite The New York  Times sustain that Obama’s emails were accessed by hackers, the newspaper hasn’t provided details on the way the hackers have obtained the access to the President’s account. The Times added that Obam email account did not appear to have been compromised by the Russian hackers.
“Still, the fact that Mr Obama’s communications were among those hit by the hackers — who are presumed to be linked to the Russian government, if not working for it — has been one of the most closely held findings of the inquiry,” states the The New York  Times. “It’s the Russian angle to this that’s particularly worrisome,” 
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  White House, Russian hackers, President Obama)
