
					The popular hacker Barnaby Jack has died					
The popular hacker Barnaby Jack has died in San Francisco, hacking community has lent another star in the firmament. He left us just a week before he was due to illustrate the method for hacking implanted heart devices from 30 feet away.
The San Francisco Medical Examiner’s office declared he died on Thursday but omitted other details on his death.
Jack is considered an excellent hacker, his passion for security bring him to be one of most popular security experts, he became popular after he proposed a technique in 2010 to force ATMs to spit out cash, the method of attack was so dubbed “Jackpotting,” .

His death is a shock for hacking community, Barnaby Jack will be due to appear at the next Black Hat hacking convention next week, demonstrating how he could attack heart devices.
Jack’s most recent employer, the cyber security consulting firm IOActive Inc, said in a Tweet: “Lost but never forgotten our beloved pirate, Barnaby Jack has passed.”
Jack has served as director of embedded device security for IOActive, he was expert to find bugs in any kind of embedded in equipment such as medical devices and banking machines.
“You grimy bastard. I was just talking up about your awesome work last night,” “You’ll be missed, bro.” Tweeted Dino Dai Zovi, another popular hacker mentioned many times because he found various flaws in Apple products.
Dave Marcus, a senior threat researcher at McAfee, wrote:
Great memory: Barnaby Jack shooting me in the face with water through a hacked insulin pump whilst doing shots. RIP Barns. You made me laugh
— Dave Marcus (@DaveMarcus) July 26, 2013Jerry Gamblin, a network security specialist and conference speaker, added:
Sad to learn @barnaby_jack has passed away. He was a much better person than he was a hacker, and that is saying something.
— Jerry Gamblin (@JGamblin) July 26, 2013Dan Kaminsky, of Cisco, Avaya and IOActive fame, chipped in:
God, the stories. Nobody caused such hilarious trouble like @barnaby_jack. You kids with your lulz are about to learn about a PRO
— Dan Kaminsky (@dakami) July 26, 2013
Fly high brother … the firmament is your place!
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – hacking, Barnaby Jack)
