
					Anonymous India hacked BSNL website and compromised more than 30 Million records					
 The website of the BSNL Telecommunications Journal has been hacked by the hacktivists of the Indian Anonymous arm named AnonOpsIndia.
Anonymous India the BSNL journal website to protest against the surveillance programs operated by the Indian Government. The hack occurred during the launch of Digital India campaign by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

The hacker defaced the BSNL Telecommunications Journal, they left a message to the webmaster of the site inviting them to fix the flaws in the portal and learn the web application security fundamentals.
“You have stored passwords in plain text. Shame! Is this your #DigitalIndia? We also have access to all BSNL databases now. No data on the server was tampered though. But we have taken a copy of all your databases. Patch up before the Chinese get their hands on this. It’s a goldmine.” states the hackers.
The collective of Anonymous India has asked the Minister for Communications and Information Technology, Ravi Shankar Prasad, “to stop moving towards a licensing regime”, the hackers also published a list of demands on the defaced page.  Below the message displayed on the hacked website.
Message to Government of India:
1) Demand government to take action against RS Prasad for openly challenging privacy of the citizens of India.
2) Demand government to take action against TRAI for their stupidity of releasing million Email IDs, helping spammers & violating your very own IT laws.
3) Demand government to take action against Reliance sending unencrypted data to China via their Jio Chat app.
4) Demand government (RS Prasad) to stop moving towards a licensing regime. We are watching your every move on net neutrality.
5) Demand government to shut down all surveillance projects like CMS & RS Prasad’s interception of phone calls before it is too late. Also release all details in public of whose phone calls have been tapped & are under surveillance.
6) Demand government (DoT) to unblock all websites & put an end to internet censorship.
7) Demand government to take action against NIC for trying to change history. Wikipedia is not your medium to promote lies & propagandas.
According to AnonOpsIndia the situation is worse, the hackers claim to have compromised 30 million records from BSNL database. The hackers claim the records are composed of “bill summary, payment details or account details.”

It is not clear of the security staff at BSNL is aware of the hack.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – BSNL Telecommunication, Anonymous)
