
					ISIS Publishes Detailed Guide on How to Use Services Like Craigslist to Lure Non-Believers to Their Death					
ISIS has released a detailed guide on how to murder non-believers. The tutorial provides advice on how to lure targets via fake ads on websites such as Craigslist, Gumtree and eBay, in order to kill them. The current installment of ISIS’ English-language propaganda magazine Rumiyah explains how to attain hostages and mass murder a large amount of people.
The magazine also suggests posting fake employment ads as another means of luring victims to their demise.
“After garnering a significant amount of applicants, one can then arrange the ‘job interview’ location and times, spacing out the applicants’ appointment times so as to give oneself time to subdue each target as he arrives — luring him to an appropriate location before attacking, subduing, binding and then slaughtering them.”
Alternatively, according to the magazine, falsely advertising an apartment for rent can also achieve the desired result:
“‘The advertisement should be for a small single-room or studio apartment,’ the article states.

‘This will help ensure that the viewer comes alone.’
The article is so detailed that it suggests followers dedicate a room for the ‘disposal of bodies … for the obvious reason of not alerting those intended victims entering the property after them’, and that they buy a ‘bat or small club’ to beat the victim over the head with before slaughtering them with a ‘strong, sharp knife’.
‘Additionally, carrying out this type of operation in the daytime hours will also help in this regard as it allows one to exploit the noise pollution that comes with the movement of people during those hours to drown out any sounds that may be heard as a consequence of one’s attacks,’ the article states.”
Rumiyah gives the reader a green light, ensuring that luring a non-believer, under false pretenses, in an effort to murder them is “divinely approved” by Allah.
Large-scale terrorist attacks are advocated by the magazine, which states that “the scenario for such as attack is that one assault a busy, public and enclosed location and rounds up the kuffar (non-Muslims) who are present.”
It goes on to say:
“Having gained control over the victims, one should then proceed to slaughter as many of them as he possibly can before the initial police response.”
“Ideal target locations for hostage-taking scenarios include nightclubs, movie theatres, busy shopping malls and large stores, popular restaurants, concert halls, university campuses, public swimming pools, indoor ice-skating rinks, and generally any busy enclosed area, as such an environment allows for one to take control of the situation by rounding up the kuffar present inside and allows one to massacre them while using the building as a natural defence against any responding force attempting to enter and bring the operation to a quick halt.”
“Similarly, characteristics of a good target location include low light conditions, as it grants one the ability to manoeuvre between the people, taking advantage of the confusion and killing as many of the kuffar as physically possible.”
Rumiyah also suggests that if an ISIS soldier is unable to obtain a gun legally, they can always ram-raid hunting or military stores in order to acquire a firearm. Rumiyah indicates that the objective of taking hostages in “lands of disbelief”, such as Australia and the U.S., is to “create as much carnage and terror as one possibly can until Allah decrees his appointed time and the enemies of Allah storm his location or succeed in killing him.”
One of the main purposes of terrorist groups using the Internet is recruitment. On Tuesday, a former Guantanamo Bay inmate was detained in Bordeaux, France as part of a terror crackdown. Sabir Mahfouz Lahmar was one of six suspects arrested for allegedly being part of a French ISIS recruiting network. But, this is not Lahmar’s first go round with the system–he was freed from Gitmo in 2009 after France agreed to accept him. Lahmar was one of six Algerians detained in Bosnia in 2001 on suspicion of plotting to bomb the US embassy in Sarajevo.
So, what’s being done about the continued proliferation of terrorist activity online? Last Friday, world leaders agreed to ramp up the heat on social media giants, in response to the backlash against the spread of online terrorism. According to The Mirror:
“The G7 group issued an unprecedented order telling Internet outfits like Google, Facebook and Twitter to ‘act urgently’ in developing new tools to block violent content.”
The joint statement represented a significant win for Theresa May at her first G7 summit. The PM has led the charge against online terror, first as Home Secretary and then as Prime Minister – and now has other world leaders on her side.
British officials said US President Donald Trump and new French President Emmanuel Macron proved key allies at the summit in Sicily, pressing other leaders to back the plan.”
The G7’s joint statement:
“The internet has proven to be a powerful tool for terrorist purposes. The G7 calls for communication service providers and social media companies to substantially increase their effort to address terrorist content.”
“We encourage the industry to act urgently in developing and sharing new technology and tools to improve the automatic detection of content promoting incitement to violence. And we commit to supporting industry efforts in this vein including the proposed industry-led forum for combating online extremism.”
Demanding that businesses take certain measures in order to help fight terrorism has not always been well-received by businesses. And, there’s always the issue of infringing on civil liberties, so the future of the G7’s plan is uncertain.
The U.S. military, however, has shown some improvement in countering the digital operations of ISIS.
According to Lt. Gen. Paul Nakasone, commanding general of Army Cyber Command, over the past six months, a lot of progress has been made. “I think what we are learning is in terms of being able to counter a message, being able to attack a brand — in this case, the brand of ISIS — and then, the other thing is, how do we do this with the speed and accuracy that is able to get at an adversary that six months ago was moving uncontested in cyberspace,” he said at a Senate Armed Services subcommittee hearing. “I think we’ve learned those things over the last six months. I think we as a department have done much better.”
It appears the U.S. Army has thrown down the gauntlet:
“Quite simply, ISIS is no longer uncontested in cyberspace, and that’s a change,” said U.S. Army Cyber Command spokesman Charlie Stadtlander. “[Joint Task Force Ares] has demonstrated the value to the Joint Force that cyber can be a meaningful contribution to an overall military mission.”
But, the lingering question, as to who in government is best suited to counter information operations, remains an unsolved mystery on Capitol Hill.
NSA Director and U.S. Cyber Command head Adm. Michael Rogers admitted during a recent hearing that U.S. Cyber Command is not “optimized” to combat information operations launched by foreign powers.
“It right now is not in our defined set of responsibilities per say,” Rogers said. “I would be the first to admit that [information warfare] is not what our workforce is optimized for … we are certainly not where we”
Written by: CandiceLanier
Author Bio:
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – ISIS, terrorism)
