
					Anonymous launches the OpISIS and brings down ISIS social media accounts					
Anonymous ha also posted the manifest of the Op Charlie Hebdo on Pastebin, below the translation of an excerpt from the message:
“It is our responsibility to react … Attacking freedom of speech is a direct hit to democracy. Expect a massive reaction from us, because this freedom is what we’ve been always fighting for.”
True to his declaration of war, Anonymous announced the # OpISIS in a video appeared on YouTube. The popular collective and the RedCult claimed to have carried out cyber attack against hundreds of Twitter and Facebook accounts used by the terrorists of the Islamic State.

According to the video, Operation OpISIS is managed by “Muslims, Christians, Jews”, a masked man explains the motivation of the attack that is conducted by ordinary people that together decided to join the forces against the ISIS.

[We are] “hackers, crackers, Hacktivist, phishers, agents, spies, or just the guy next door… students, administrators, workers, clerks, unemployed, rich, poor.” They are also “young, or old, gay or straight… from all races, countries, religions, and ethnicity. United as one, divided by zero.” the video explains.
Anonymous released a list of more than hundred Twitter and Facebook accounts suspected to belong to ISIS members, they represent the target of the OpISIS. Anonymous released the following message to the ISIS supporters:
On the other side, the ISIS is demonstrating an excellent command of web technologies such as social networks, which uses daily to communicate with his followers.
Recently it has been discovered a manual released by the ISIS to its members to avoid online surveillance during their web experience. Twitter has already suspended more than 1500 ISIS accounts and dozens of militant recruiting websites were shut down by ISP and by DDoS Attack run by Anonymous members.
It isn’t the first time that Anonymous targets jihadist online communities, in June the group run a campaign dubbed Operation NO2ISIS against some states it accuses of supporting the Islamic terror group ISIS.
(Security Affairs –  Anonymous, OpISIS, ISIS)
