
					Never too late, Skype supports end-to-end encryption for new Private Conversations feature					
The latest version of Skype implements end-to-end encryption and introduces the support for the Signal protocol. which is the protocol used by WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger, Google Allo, and Signal.
Attackers will not able to snoop on Skype Private Conversations will support text, audio calls, and file transfers, thanks to the introduction of the end-to-end encryption.
“We know extra protection is important as you share sensitive information over Skype so we’re excited to announce the preview of end-to-end encrypted Private Conversations, available now for Skype Insiders.” states the announcement published by Microsoft.
“With Private Conversations, you can have end-to-end encrypted Skype audio calls and send text messages or files like images, audio, or videos, using the industry standard Signal Protocol by Open Whisper Systems. The content of these conversations will be hidden in the chat list as well as in notifications to keep the information you share private.”
Currently, Presently, Private Conversations are only available in the Insider builds of Skype that is already included in the desktop version of the app, along with the iOS, Android, Linux, and macOS clients.
Unfortunately, Private Conversations still don’t support video calling, and this is a very big limitation.
Experts criticized Skype in the past because it always failed in implementing end-to-end encryption, this limitation advantaged many other instant messaging services like WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger.
The adoption of the Signal protocol is very important, this is the first time Microsoft doesn’t use a proprietary encryption Skype protocol.
If you want to test the new feature, select “New Private Conversation” from the compose menu or from the recipient’s profile.
“After the recipient accepts your invite, all calls and messages in that conversation will be encrypted end-to-end until you choose to end it.” continues Microsoft. “You can only participate in a private conversation from a single device at a time. You can switch the conversation to any of your devices, but the messages you send and receive will be tied to the device you’re using at the time.”

Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  Signal protocol, end-to-end encryption)
