
					Google to banish cryptocurrency mining extensions from official Chrome Web Store					
The number of malicious extensions is rapidly increased over the past few months, especially those related to mining activities.
The company has introduced a new Web Store policy that bans any Chrome extension submitted to the Web Store that mines cryptocurrency.
“Until now, Chrome Web Store policy has permitted cryptocurrency mining in extensions as long as it is the extension’s single purpose, and the user is adequately informedabout the mining behavior.” reads a blog post published by Google.
“Unfortunately, approximately 90% of all extensions with mining scripts that developers have attempted to upload to Chrome Web Store have failed to comply with these policies, and have been either rejected or removed from the store.”
“Starting today, Chrome Web Store will no longer accept extensions that mine cryptocurrency,” 
Until now, Google only allowed those cryptocurrency mining extensions that explicitly informed users about their mining activities.
The Mountain View firm announced it will block all mining extensions that are not in compliance and secretly mine cryptocurrency using devices’ resources.

Google pointed out that the ban on cryptocurrency mining extensions will not affect blockchain-related extensions such as Bitcoin price checkers and cryptocurrency wallet managers.
“Existing extensions that mine cryptocurrency will be delisted from the Chrome Web Store in late June. Extensions with blockchain-related purposes other than mining will continue to be permitted in the Web Store.” continues the blog post.
Google ban is another step to protect its users from hidden risks, it follows the recent announcement to ban advertisements related to cryptocurrency.
“This policy is another step forward in ensuring that Chrome users can enjoy the benefits of extensions without exposing themselves to hidden risks.” concluded Google.
Google is not the unique media firm that imposed a ban on cryptocurrency-related abuses, Twitter recently announced the ban for cryptocurrency-related ads on its platform, in January, Facebook banned all ads promoting cryptocurrency-related initiatives, including Bitcoin and ICOs.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Chrome Web Store, cryptocurrency mining extensions)


