
					Flaw in Sky.it web site allows brute force attack					
Sky is a brand names for satellite television providers and channels, owned or partially owned by News Corporation an American diversified multinational mass media corporation headquartered in New York City, United States.
The IT specialist, Fabio Natalucci, published a blog post  related a vulnerability on the Italian web site that allows an attacker to perform a brute force attack and obtain the login credentials of the users of the site.
The flaw allows an attacker to access sensitive information stored on Sky.it , including user’s address, phone number etc. The attacker is also able to modify data related to specific account and could use the information to access to SKYGO service, of course for free, a service that make possible the vision of television channels directly form client’s mobile device. Not to mention the ability to change the account to your liking or maybe why not start to see the free games from SKYGO and you pay.
Fabio Natalucci started his research months ago noting that web site manages account verification on-line in real time.
On November 24th 2012 he advised Sky IT Security Department to reporting the vulnerability, and received assurances that the problem would be solved as soon as possible … months have passed but the situation has not changed today.
On January 24th 2013 Fabio decided to public disclose the vulnerability hoping in a resolution of the flaw, but once again nothing is happened so he decided to contact me
Today I decided to publish the news because I’m Sky client too and I’m worried about my personal information.
Following the details of the POC
1. URL to verify the account credentials
https://www.sky.it/ReSky/loginJSONP?username=USERNAME&password=PASSWORD&rememberFlag=0
2. Will respond with 2 integers {0} if the account is valid and {4} if the account is not valid.
There are no controls on the number of access attempts, this means that using a simple scrip to dump DB or attack a specific account.
Following a test made with my Sky Account …. in both cases using right and wrong credentials


 
 
Let’s home Sky will reply us!
Pierluigi Paganini & Fabio Natalucci
(Security Affairs – Hacking)
