
					February 2016 Patch Tuesday – All Windows are affected by a critical flaw					
All supported versions of Windows are affected by a critical vulnerability recently fixed by Microsoft. The IT giant has released 13 security bulletins, six issues are rated as critical. The security bulletins resolve a total of 41 security flaws in Microsoft software.
One of the bulletins in the February 2016 Patch Tuesday, the MS16-022, fixes the 22 Flash Player flaws recently resolved by Adobe, including the Flash libraries used in Microsoft Internet Explorer 10 and 11, and Edge browsers.
A vulnerability in the Microsoft Windows 10 operating system, as well as Windows Server 2016 Tech Preview 4, has captured the attention of the security community.
The MS16-013 vulnerability is a memory-corruption flaw and could be exploited by remote attackers to execute arbitrary code as the logged-in user by tricking a user into opening a specially crafted Journal file. Fortunately, according to Microsoft the vulnerability has not been exploited in the wild.
This vulnerability would allow attackers to run malicious programs on a targeted machine and create new accounts with full user rights.
“The vulnerability could allow remote code execution if a user opens a specially crafted Journal file. Users whose accounts are configured to have fewer user rights on the system could be less impacted than users who operate with administrative user rights.” states the official description published by Microsoft.
The list of February 2016 Patch Tuesday bulletins includes also the MS16-015, which fixes critical vulnerabilities in Microsoft Office security that can be exploited to execute arbitrary code in the context of the targeted user simply tricking victims into opening a specially crafted.
The complete list of fixes is reported below:

Microsoft also launched a page for public tracking of Windows 10 update (Windows 10 update history) an effort to show users the improvement applied by the company to its OS.
“We’re committed to our customers and strive to incorporate their feedback, both in how we deliver Windows as a service and the info we provide about Windows 10,” states Microsoft .
“In response to this feedback, we are providing more details about the Windows 10 updates we deliver through Windows Update. You’ll see a summary of important product developments included in each update, with links to more details.”
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Microsoft Windows, Microsoft February 2016 Patch Tuesday)
