
					European cloud trends: Law reforms on cloud data protection is vital for the European Commission					
Breaking down barriers is the dilemma for investors, companies, EU member states and lawmakers to guarantee an atmosphere of legitimacy on new European cloud trends. The role of EC and EU has a compromise to perform legal priorities in cyberspace and develop digital markets.
The European Commission is addressing a new challenge to develop a single digital marketplace in Europe. This political issue in the EU is oriented to expand a growing trend on cloud services by empowering economic and productivity benefits for startups and enterprises.

Currently, data protection laws are creating legislative barriers to implement the addressing proposals on Digital Single Market. The EC has been presented several proposals in May to push for the creation of a single marketplace for digital services across the EU. The objective of the reforms is trying to harmonize European cloud trends. From the point of view of Pearse O’ Donoghue, the European Commission’s (EC) head of software, services and cloud computing, considers necessary to build a single cloud market, which contains easy policies and cloud standards. In fact,
In fact, establishment of the European Cloud Computing Strategy is opening a wide-prominent scenario for Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) towards to create 2.5 million new jobs.
“We need to ensure providers and users have access to the full European market, and the services are in competition with each other, which leads to greater innovation and lower cost,” said Donoghue. Reported by ComputerWeekly
Thus, new benefits and opportunities for entrepreneurship and technology investments can be possible in the EU with a digital single market. Nonetheless, legal barriers must be flexible across the Union, to get a consensus on legal priorities, in order to build a “free flow of data” across European borders.
Events on Cloud Computing, such as the Datacloud Europe Event celebrated in Monaco in June 3th, expressed a new opportunity for the EU to create new jobs in the EURO zone and enhancing GDP factors in economic growth.
About the Author Francisco Javier Delgado Villarreal
Francisco Javier Delgado Villarreal is a Junior Business Continuity, Cybersecurity and Internet Governance Consultant. His professional experience in Information and Communication Technologies has been developed since 2009 in different arenas, such as International Organizations, Governments and private sector in Ecuador and abroad.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  EU, Cloud computing)
