
					GOP hackers are threatening US news media agency					
According to a new Joint Intelligence Bulletin of the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security on the attack on Sony Pictures, the hackers that compromised the systems of the giant. The FBI an official FBI bulletin was obtained by The Intercept states that the GoP hacking team that breached Sony Pictures represents a serious threat for US news media companies.
“The hackers who infiltrated Sony Pictures Entertainment’s computer servers have threatened to attack an American news media organization,according to an FBI bulletin obtained by The Intercept. The threat against the unnamed news organization by the Guardians of Peace, the hacker group that has claimed credit for the Sony attack, “may extend to other such organizations in the near future,” according to a Joint Intelligence Bulletin of the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security obtained by The Intercept.” reads The Intercept.
It’s not clear which is the next target for the GoP, but security experts bet on the CNN. The bulletin points to a December 20 Pastebin post titled “Christmas gift to FBI” reporting the following text:
“The result of investigation by FBI is so excellent that you might have seen what we were doing with your own eyes.We congratulate you success. FBI is the BEST in the world.”


Recently some news websites reported that Sony hackers threatened CNN in online message.
“In one message, the group mockingly praised CNN for its “investigation” into the attack on Sony’s computer network and offered a “gift” in the form of a YouTube video titled “You are an idiot.” The message closed with a demand that CNN “give us the Wolf,” a likely reference to CNN news anchor Wolf Blitzer.” reports The Desk.
A few days later a freelance writer, David Garrett, Jr, has come forward as the author of the message to the CNN that was referenced in the FBI’s intelligence memo.
“David Garrett, Jr. published several images on his Twitter profile Wednesday afternoon that he asserted proved himself to be the author of the taunting message to CNN.”
Despite the threats to the CNN are fake, the US authorities are alerting US companies on possible cyber attacks, and media agencies are among the most privileged targets.
Every company is a potential target, it is important to consider the FBI bulletin as a wake up call to assume a proper security posture and avoid other clamorous attacks.
Stay Tuned
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  GoP, FBI Bulletin)
