
					Anonymous collective threatens Israel with electronic-holocaust					
Once again the group of  hacktivits Anonymous has threatened Israel with “the electronic holocaust” which would “erase it from cyberspace.”
The massive cyber attack announced by Anonymous is planned on April 7 for “crimes in the Palestinian territories.” Anonymous will hit Israel exactly a week before the Holocaust Remembrance Day on April 16, known by Israeli people as Yom HaShoah,
Anonymous published a video message displaying images from the Gaza conflict and which is promising a clamorous attack against the network of the country.

In the video message, Anonymous speaking to the Israeli Government, claims that it has not “stopped…endless human right violations” and “illegal settlements”.
“You killed thousands of people, as in the last war against Gaza in 2014. You have shown that you do NOT respect international law,” states the spokesman in the video message. “We are coming back to punish you again,” Anonymous video vows.
The video includes images of the air strikes on the Palestinian territory during the Israel Defence Forces Operation Protective Edge last summer. In response Anonymous hit Israeli government websites it took down hundreds of websites, including Mossad and the IDF.
“As we did many times, we’ll take down your servers, government websites, Israeli military websites, banks, and public institutions. We’ll erase you from cyber-space as we have every year, 7 April 2015, will be an electronic holocaust,” continues the video.
Anonymous is urging supporters to take part in the operation expressing solidarity and support to Palestine.
“never give up”. “We are with you, and will continue to defend you,” the group vowed.
The group is threatening Netanyahu and his Government:
“message to the foolish Benjamin Netanyahu, and all leaders in the Zionist entities” warning that cyber-attacks on Israeli devices, websites and personal data will continue “until the people of Palestine are free.” 
“We always say expect us but you always fail. We are unexpected; we’ll show on 7 April 2015 what the electronic holocaust mean…” states the video.
Anonymous slated its attack just a little over a week before Holocaust Remembrance Day, known in Israel as Yom HaShoah, which is marked on April 16.

The Israeli authorities don’t consider Anonymous a real threat for the country and its cyber assets, remembering that past operations #OpIsrael haven’t created specific problems to the Israel. The first #OpIsrael run my Anonymous started in November 2012 in response to the Israeli Operation Pillar of Defense into the Gaza strip.
Despite the government reported no major disruptions, Israeli exponents estimated that the #OpIsrael in April 2013 caused $3billion worth of damage to Israel, more than 100,000 websites were hit by hacktivits and nearly one hundred thousand social media accounts and banking logins were compromised.
“As the years have progressed we have seen that, despite their increasing sophistication in hacking techniques, we have seen less damage against Israeli cyber-infrastructures, largely due to Israel’s pioneering of most cyber-warfare tactics, both offensive and defensive,” told to RT.com Benjamin T. Decker, a senior intelligence analyst at The Levantine Group.
Security experts believe that Anonymous will coordinate DDoS attacks against Israeli infrastructure, but is is not excluded that the hacktivists could run spear phishing attacks against Israeli institutions.
In 2013, Anonymous posted the online personal data of 5,000 Israeli officials as part of the #OpIsrael, while the Israeli Finance Ministry reported an estimated 44 million unique attacks on government in just four days.
Stay Tuned for further information …
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  Anonymous, #opIsrael)
