
					Are you searching for a Facebook Hacking Tool? Be careful!					
Security researchers at ESET have published an interesting post about a new Facebook hacking tool. I receive every week dozen emails requesting me instruction to hack Facebook accounts.
The hacking tool recently discovered is not able to support you in this hard task, instead it could expose users that download it to serious risks.
But Beware of any software that promises you to hack any Facebook account, it could be very dangerous to launch it.
The tool reported by THN is dubbed Remtasu, it is available online as a Facebook hacking tool, but in reality, it is a trojan that could infect Windows systems.
The trojan is a well-known threat that is circulating for a long on the Internet, now crooks have found a differed way to spread it.
The tool contains a Keylogger module that could be used to that can steal users login credentials. Typically a user searching for a Facebook hacking tool finds the malicious application on direct download websites.
Once a user visits one of these websites, the dangerous Win32/Remtasu.Y malware automatically gets downloaded and executed on victim’s machine.”Although these files are from the same family as those witnessed last year, the way they are being spread is different. We are no longer seeing propagation through e-mail. They are instead coming from direct download sites. Once a user downloads and executes the file, their data is compromised.” states a blog post published by ESET.


The Remtasu trojan is able to capture keystrokes and access information from the clipboard, every information collected on the infected system is stored locally in a data file and then sent to an FTP server.
The system gain persistence in the infected system by saving its copy in a folder that it also creates within the system32 folder.
“As is to be expected in this type of threat, the virus always seeks a way to remain on the computer even when the victim reboots their system or attempts to find the threat in the list of active processes.” continues the post.
“In this case, the malware replicates itself, saving the copy in a folder that it also creates within the system32 folder. The new InstallDir folder remains hidden inside the system files, making it difficult for users to access.”
The campaign based on the fake Facebook Hacking Tool mainly infected users from Colombia, Turkey, and Thailand.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Remtasu Trojan, Facebook Hacking tool )
