
					For the second time in a few months Montenegro suffered massive and prolonged cyberattacks					
According to the Balkan Insight, attackers have launched a renewed attack on the Montenegrin government and media.
The last wave of cyber attacks started on February 15 and lasted several days, according to the government experts it was a massive offensive coordinated by professional hackers.
“The government in Podgorica has vowed to take action after a series of large-scale, sophisticated and coordinated hacker attacks on the websites of state institutions and pro-government media.” reads the balkaninsight.com.
This isn’t the first time that Montenegro was targeted by the hackers, another massive attack hit the country’s institutions during October elections, amid speculation that the Russian Government was involved.
Montenegrin authorities are working with other experts of partner countries on attributing the attack and locating the hackers. The government announced plans to tighten cyber security to protect its infrastructure.
According to the Balkan Insight, Montenegro suffered an escalation of cyber attacks in 2016.
“As BIRN reported in January, a new analysis by the Public Administration Ministry on the scale of the cyber threat to Montenegro showed that hacking attacks rose in 2016. Attacks were “much more serious and sophisticated”, it said.” continues the Balkan Insight.  “Over 200 attacks on websites, state institutions, online fraud and misuse of personal accounts were reported in 2016, compared with just six in 2012.”

Who is behind the attacks?
Experts speculate the involvement of a nation-state actor because the attacks appear as politically motivated and their level of sophistication is very high.
“The severity and sophistication of cyber-attacks affecting Montenegro during 2016 were reflected in the increased number of identified attacks on infrastructure and cyber espionage cases, as well as through phishing campaigns which targeted civil servants,” the report said.
Montenegro accused Russia of meddling in the election in October, but the Russian Government always denied any involvement in the cyber attacks. Some media close to ruling Democratic Party of Socialists claimed the attacks came from the same Russian hackers allegedly behind recent
“Some media close to ruling Democratic Party of Socialists claimed the attacks came from the same Russian hackers allegedly behind recent cyberattacks in the US.” continued the news agency.
According to Intelligence analysis, Russia secretly funneled money to anti-NATO opposition parties in the country and set up or co-opted media outlets to undermine former PM Milo Djukanovic government.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Montenegro, intelligence)
