
					Flaws in BMW ConnectedDrive Infotainment System allow remote hack					
Once again IoT devices are affected by a serious flaw that could be exploited by hackers to compromise them, this time we speak of Car Hacking.
Almost any modern connected vehicle uses a drive-by-wire system that relies on electrical or electro-mechanical systems for performing traditional vehicle functions.
This technology replaces the traditional mechanical control systems to manage steering, brakes, and accelerator. Of course, the use of electronic components in modern connected vehicles open the door to hacking attacks.
Recently, the security researcher Benjamin Kunz Mejri has discovered zero-day flaws that affect the official BMW web domain and ConnectedDrive portal. The vulnerabilities are still unpatched exposing used to cyber attacks.
The first flaw in the BMW ConnectedDrive online service web-application is a VIN (Vehicle Identification Number) session vulnerability.
The VIN is the identification code assigned to each vehicle while accessing the service.
The BMW ConnectedDrive is an infotainment system that is installed on some model of the German automaker, it implements various functionalities to provide the users with information and entertainment. It could be used to control car features (i.e. heating, lights) and to manage user’s services like emails.

The vulnerability resides in the session management of VIN usage and hackers could exploit it to bypass the secure validation procedures of the VIN remotely using a live session, in this way they can manipulate VIN numbers and configuration settings.
“The vulnerability is located in the session management of the VIN adding procedure. Remote attackers are able to bypass the secure validation approval of the VIN when processing to create it. Basically the validation does not allow to add a non exisiting number to the interface configuration to prevent different typ of errors or issues. In case of the adding procedure the request approve via action – add the context.” states the security advisory from the vulnerability-lab. “Remote attackers are able to change with a live session tamper the action information to create or update. Thus allows an attacker to bypass the invalid VIN exception to add a new configuration finally. Thus interaction results in the takeover of other vehicle identification numbers to view or manipulate the configuration.”
The post includes a PoC to follow step by step:
The second vulnerability discovered by the researchers is a client-side cross-site scripting vulnerability that resides in the official BMW online service web-application. The flaw could allow a remote attacker to inject malicious script codes to the client-side of the affected module context.
The security flaws have been reported to BMW in February, unfortunately, there was news about the availability of a fix.


Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – BMW ConnectedDrive, hacking)
