
					Victims of the CryptXXX v.3 can now use a free tool to decrypt their files					
CryptXXX v.3 ransomware was defeated, researchers have released a decryption tool for unlocking encrypted files. The decryption tool was included in the RannohDecryptor utility, a free application shared by the No Ransom Project.
The utility was already able to unlock a limited list of files encrypted by the CryptXXX v.3, but not it is able to recover almost any file targeted by the v.3.
The CryptXXX ransomware is one of the ransomware with the highest number of victims in the wild that targeted mostly US users. Russia, Germany and Japan are also in the top-targeted countries.
CryptXXX ransomware was first spotted in April, experts believe it allowed criminal organizations to earn a lot of money.
The experts noted an intense activity involving the malware that was spread in campaigns leveraging on Angler, Neutrino, and Magnitude exploit kits.

Since April, CryptXXX has rapidly evolved, according to the firm SentinelOne, in June a new campaign that fixed the security flaws that allowed decrypting locked files without paying the ransom.
In May, experts at Kaspersky Lab have updated their decryption tool to adapt to the second version of the CryptXXX ransomware in the RannohDecryptor 1.9.1.0.
Every time the author of the CryptXXX released a new version, experts from Kaspersky were able to exploit flaws in the code of the ransomware to unlock the encrypted files.
The researchers from Kaspersky Lab, discovered the malware leverage on a DLL written in Delphi and uses several encryption algorithms to lock the files.
Once CryptXXX v.3 locks files, it appends the extensions .crypt, .cryp1 and .crypz. The latest variant of the malware also includes a module called stiller.dll that is tasked with stealing account credentials from the victim’s machine
“After the files are encrypted and all the valuable data is transferred to the criminals, the Trojan displays a message to the victim demanding a ransom,” Kaspersky Lab researchers said.
If you are one of the victims of ransomware give a look at the list of available decryption utilities that was included in the No Ransom website.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  cybercrime, ransomware)
