
					Samsung Galaxy backdoor allows files access on the mobile’s storage					
As highlighted in the blog post, modern handsets come with two separate processors, a general-purpose application processor that runs the main operating system and another component  in charge of communications with the mobile telephony network. Modem processor is usually targeted by attackers because it always runs a proprietary operating system, and the presence of a backdoor makes possible to remotely surveillance activities.
Kocialkowski has discovered that a Samsung’s IPC protocol runs in the background in the communications processor and allows the modem component to remotely the user’s phone storage. Samsung IPC protocol allows to read, write, and delete files implementing a class of requests (RFS commands) to execute remote I/O operations on the phone’s storage.
“we discovered that the proprietary program running on the applications processor in charge of handling the communication protocol with the modem actually implements a backdoor that lets the modem perform remote file I/O operations on the file system. This program is shipped with the Samsung Galaxy devices and makes it possible for the modem to read, write, and delete files on the phone’s storage. On several phone models, this program runs with sufficient rights to access and modify the user’s personal data. A technical description of the issue, as well as the list of known affected devices is available at the Replicant wiki.” states the blog post.
We cannot demonstrate that the backdoor was specifically designed, neither that it might have been placed there wrongly, but in both cases user’s privacy is at risk.
Replicant has published a patch ‘0001-modem_if-Inject-and-intercept-RFS-I-O-messages-to-pe.patch‘ for your Samsung Smartphone, which replace the legitimate Samsung-RIL library.
Kocialkowski also encourage Samsung Galaxy owners to appeal publicly to SamsungMobile for an explanation.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Samsung, mobile)
