
					Israeli TV broadcast hacked, attackers played Muslim call to prayer					
On Tuesday night, a group of hackers took control of an Israeli news Channel 2 and played Muslim call to prayer. The hackers want to protest a controversial bill that limits the volume of the call to prayer from mosques.
The hackers broke into the Israeli TV broadcast and disrupted the transmissions after gained access to TV satellites.
According to Israeli media, the hacker appeared to be from Saudi Arabia
Source teztv.com
האקרים השתלטו על שידורי מהדורת חדשות 2, ובמקום – שידרו קריאת מואזין pic.twitter.com/lCmDajZXh4
— חדשות 2 (@Channel2News) 29 novembre 2016

In November, the representatives of the Knesset have given their approval to the “muezzin bill” that bans religious leaders from using loudspeakers that call the worshippers for prayers.
The Israeli Government’s bill aims to protect its citizens from noise.
“While the bill is primarily targeted at curbing noise pollution, critics have noted the proposed law contains a clause which says that “freedom of religion should not be harmful to quality of life nor used to convey religious or nationalist messages, and sometimes even words of incitement”, which they say is targeted at Muslims.” states the Independent.
The hackers are protesting of a the bill, they spread messages written in the Hebrew language warning of “punishment from God” and said that “the fire burned hearts”.
“The fire burned hearts” and “To for big great God [is] war from God (the fire burns you).” states the other messages.
“Residents in northern Israel viewing Channel 2 via satellite TV reported that during the evening broadcast someone took over central control of the broadcast and played the voice of the muezzin,” reported the Tribune. 
The Arab politicians Ahmad Tibi and Taleb Abu Arar staged a Muslim call to prayer, the ‘Azan,’ in the  parliament in protest against the bill.
The bill has received the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s support.
“I cannot count the times – they are simply too numerous – that citizens have turned to me from all parts of Israeli society, from all religions, with complaints about the noise and suffering caused them by the excessive noise coming to them from the public address systems of houses of prayer,” Mr Netanyahu told a cabinet meeting.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Israeli TV, Hacking)
