
					Trump – Putin meeting: “I don’t see any reason” for Russia to interfere with the US presidential election					
After the meeting, Putin and Trump made a joint news conference and of course, the US President Trump confirmed its trust in the words of the ally Putin.
“So I have great confidence in my intelligence people, but I will tell you that President Putin was extremely strong and powerful in his denial today,” Trump said.
Special Counsel Robert Mueller has a different opinion about alleged Russia’s interference in the 2016 Presidential election, his investigation led to the indictment of 12 Russian intelligence officials working under the GRU of carrying out “large-scale cyber operations” to steal Democratic Party documents and emails.
“I don’t see any reason” for Russia to interfere with the US presidential election, this is the Trump’s though.
On Friday, director of national intelligence Daniel R. Coats warned of a devastating cyber threat to US infrastructure, he said that “warning lights are blinking red again.”
The Director of National Intelligence believes that Russia is the most aggressive threat actor and recent events demonstrate it.
“Russia has been the most aggressive foreign actor, no question,” he said.
There is a great difference between campaigns launched by China and Russian ones.
According to Coats, China operates with the primary intent on stealing military and industrial secrets and had “capabilities, resources that perhaps Russia doesn’t have.” The Kremlin operated to undermine U.S. values and democratic institutions.
“The role of the Intelligence Community is to provide the best information and fact-based assessments possible for the President and policymakers. We have been clear in our assessments of Russian meddling in the 2016 election and their ongoing, pervasive efforts to undermine our democracy, and we will continue to provide unvarnished and objective intelligence in support of our national security,” said Coats in a press statement released after the Trump-Putin press event.
HELSINKI, FINLAND – JULY 16: U.S. President Donald Trump (L) and Russian President Vladimir Putin answer questions about the 2016 U.S Election collusion during a joint press conference after their summit on July 16, 2018 in Helsinki, Finland. The two leaders met one-on-one and discussed a range of issues including the 2016 U.S Election collusion. (Photo by Chris McGrath/Getty Images)
Below the excerpt from the full transcript from the Helsinki press conference about alleged interference in 2016 Presidential election.
“Once again, President Trump mentioned issue of so-called interference of Russia with the American elections. I had to reiterate things I said several times, including during our personal contacts, that the Russian state has never interfered and is not going to interfere in internal American affairs, including election process. Any specific material, if such things arise, we are ready to analyze together. For instance, we can analyze them through the joint working group on cyber security, the establishment of which we discussed during our previous contacts.” said Putin.
“During today’s meeting, I addressed directly with President Putin the issue of Russian interference in our elections. I felt this was a message best delivered in person. Spent a great deal of time talking about it. And President Putin may very well want to address it and very strongly, because he feels strongly about it and he has an interesting idea. We also discussed one of the most critical challenges facing humanity, nuclear proliferation. I provided an update on my meeting last month with Chairman Kim on the denuclearization of North Korea. After today, I am very sure that President Putin and Russia want very much to end that problem. Going to work with us, and I appreciate that commitment.” said Trump.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Trump Putin, Presidential Election)
