
					Hacker Interviews – @Docksing					

You are a popular talented hacker that has already participated in several hacking campaigns, could you tell me more about.
It wouldn’t be smart to answer that, but if I were to participate, I wouldn’t put my name on the attack. I’d use what I like to call, a puppet. They act as the face of the whole operation so we can do our work in peace.
Could you tell me which his your technical background and when you started hacking? Which are your motivations?
I started to get big into tech and experiment with it more and more once I hit high school. I taught myself everything that I know just by research and practicing. It wasn’t until my senior year, I used Wireshark to get into my schools WiFi and ended up grabbing teachers login information; I’d log in and change my grades. What really motivated me to become a hacker, was simply being intrigued by how much power you can have online; Also the money, the money is great. Now I’m going to school for cyber security, which is a very fast growing industry.
What was your greatest hacking challenge? Which was your latest hack? Can you describe me it? 
The only “challenge” I had with hacking was when I first started to learn how to do everything. I wouldn’t even call it a challenge, I think of hacking more as a game. My latest hack was when I took out some @WereTheGoons members and shortly after defaced elcbooster.com. I didn’t like the fact this team thinks they were top dawgs. They even had a pedo that was apparently one of the leaders, who eventually was exposed, hacked, and ran off twitter. That was by some mutual friends of mine. Any other hack off Twitter I don’t put my name to it, as I said in question 1; Find yourself a puppet who will do what you say and be the face of your attack
What are the 4 tools that cannot be missed in the hacker’s arsenal and why? (Try to give me indication of real tool and the way to use them) Which are the most interesting hacking communities on the web today, why?
There’s not just 4 “tools” that can’t be missed. Each hacker has their own setup. That’s what I love about hacking, there are so many tools you can choose from. My favorite is my brain. I love to social engineer people. I am very good at it and can change my personality to fit anyone if needed, but to be honest, Kali Linux was fairly useful for me in the past. It’s an operating system that ‘Contains several hundred tools which are geared towards various information security tasks, such as Penetration Testing, Security research, Computer Forensics and Reverse Engineering.’ It can easily transported from place to place by using a USB drive. Another tool I use to use was Wireshark, which I stated above. Wireshark uses libpcap or Winpcap libraries to capture network traffic on Windows to expose personal information such as social media and e-mail passwords.
Which are the most interesting hacking communities online?
Sense this is an opinion, I’d have to say the deep web has to be one of the most interesting communities when it comes to hacking. People actually have the knowledge and know what they’re doing! I like the fact where the hackers who actually know what they’re doing, don’t put a face with the attacks they do. They don’t do it for “fame”. I’d say twitter would be the runner up if it wasn’t filled with informants/snitches. You have to be careful who you let into your bubble because some of these so-called “friends” are really just social engineering you into giving yourself up so they can be paid.
Did you participate in hacking attacks against the IS propaganda online? When? How? Where do you find IS people to hack? How do you choose your targets?
No, I never spent a second of my time on that hack. I normally go after groups of hackers or anyone/anything that’ll make me profit. I think it’s funny when teams crumble at my hands and they can’t do anything about it. Everyone is vulnerable.
We often hear about cyber weapons and cyber attacks against critical infrastructure. Do you believe it is real the risk of a major and lethal cyber attack against a critical infrastructure? 
It really depends on what critical infrastructure we are talking about. Everything is vulnerable, even the greatest of firewalls. It just takes a bright mind to figure it out and some courage to follow through with it. I feel as any and all critical infrastructures are at “risk” for cyber attacks, and there’s nothing we can do about it. Technology is advancing more and more, hacks are starting to get more intelligent.
If you are searching for other info on @Docksing you can visit his discord
https://discord.gg/8NRXB 
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  Hacker, @Docksing)
