
					ISIS cell calls on supporters to kill 100 US military personnel					
The ISIS continues to scare the West, its operations are supported by a very aggressive media campaign that shares proclamations and recruit new followers in the name of Jihad. Last news relates to a call for action that the ISIS launched through its media to kill members of the United States military.
The ISIS cell condemned the military because they participated in operations in Syria, Iraq, Yemen and elsewhere against the forces of the Islamic State.
“With the huge amount of data we have from various different servers and databases, we have decided to leak 100 addresses so that our brothers in America can deal with you,” the ISIS Hacking Division said in the web posting. “And now we have made it easy for you by giving you addresses, all you need to do is take the final step, so what are you waiting for?”
An ISIS cyber unit that calls itself “Islamic State Hacking Division” has posted online personal information of 100 members of the United States military residing in the US, inviting its followers to kill them.

According to the Reuters media agency, the group posted online pictures, names and addresses of personnel in the United States military asking its “brothers residing in America” to murder them.
“Islamic State has posted online what it says are the names, U.S. addresses and photos of 100 American military service members, and called upon its “brothers residing in America” to kill them.” reported the Reuters.
The US Intelligence is already investigating on the case, the “Islamic State Hacking Division” claimed to have obtained the information by hacking several military servers and obtaining access to confidential databases and emails.
“I can’t confirm the validity of the information, but we are looking into it,” a U.S. Defense official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said on Saturday. “We always encourage our personnel to exercise appropriate OPSEC (operations security) and force protection procedures,” the official added.
US Department of Defense officials have a different opinion, they confirmed that none of the military systems appear to have been compromised by hackers. According to initial rumors, the data of the members of the United States military were gathered from publicly available sources.
“It does not appear that the information had been hacked from government servers. One Defense Department official, who was not authorized to speak publicly, said that most of the information could be found in public records, residential address search sites and social media. The officials said the list appears to be drawn from personnel who have appeared in news articles about airstrikes on the militant group.” reported The New York Times.
The members of the US military included in the list published by the ISIS operates for the 2d Bomb Wing at Barksdale Air Force Base in Louisiana and the 5th Bomb Wing at Minot AFB in North Dakota, but it seems that they haven’t participated in US operations against the ISIS.
Whatever the nature of the data, what happened is really serious, the risk that a “lone wolf” operates autonomously driven by ISIS to kill the soldiers and their families is high.
The ISIS and his followers are a real threat to the whole world.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  ISIS, doxing)
