
					Pangu Jailbreak Tool available for iOS 8 and iOS 8_1					
The Jailbreak for the new iOS 8.1 is available on the Internets, The Chinese jailbreaking team Pangu has just released an application that allows Apple users to jailbreak their mobile devices, including iPhones, iPads, iPods and second-generation Apple TV.
Jailbreaking an Apple device, it is possible to remove any limitations on IOS devices, allowing users to install third party from untrusted app repositories. This practice has many advantages, but exposes users to serious risks if the version of jailbreak they use is compromised.
The Pangu team is the same group of developer that published the jailbreaking software for iOS 7 a few months back, security experts are surprised by the rapidity with which it has been released the new jailbreak.
The software released by the Pangu team is effective on devices running the latest version of Apple’s mobile operating system, iOS 8 and iOS 8.1.
Be aware, because the current version of the jailbreak iOS 8 tool is a developer edition and is not present in the Cydia app store, this means that the majority of iOS users cannot have it because cannot install unauthorized app.
But it is a question of a few times before o final release of Pangu jailbreak will be available on the Cydia repository. The popular Cydia developer, Jay Freeman (aka @Saurik), confirmed in a Reddit thread, that he is working on making it compatible with this jailbreak.
“So, windknown has contacted me, about a half hour ago, via e-mail. He has told me one of the issues that is keeping Substrate from working on the device, which will probably require me to build a little binary patch for dyld as part of the Substrate installation sequence,” Saurik explained.
In a first time, Pangu team published a download link for the developer edition, but quickly it removed it because the presence of bugs to fix urgently.
“Current Pangu Jailbreak v1.0.0 is disabled remotely because we are fixing bug which may cause lost of your photos. Please wait ” states the PanguTeam in a Tweet.

 
The Pangu team has released only a windows version of the iOS 8.1 jailbreak tool, soon also Mac OS X version will be available. The team anticipated in fact that their iOS 8 jailbreak software will work on all iOS 8 and iOS 8.1 devices, including iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPad mini 3, and iPad Air 2, as well as the iPhone 5s and iPad Air.
Unfortunately the Pangu software is available only in Chinese language, the underground Chinese mobile market is the most active in the supply of this kind of products.
Let us wait for the final release of this jailbreak tool available with Cydia support.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –ios jailbreak,hacking)
