
					Anonymous presented OnionIRC, a chat service in the Dark Web					
Anonymous, the most popular collective of hacktivists, has announced a new chatroom in the DarkWeb dedicated to teaching its sympathizers hacking and coding techniques and encryption mechanisms.
Anonymous used one of its Twitter accounts to spread the news, the chat service, named as OnionIRCm is hosted on the TorNetwork.  Anyone that wants to get in touch with Anonymous members could access it.

Anonymous also published a video on YouTube announcing the chatroom and the service it offers.
In a video posted online, the group outlined the intentions of the chatroom.
“The OnionIRC is designed to allow for full anonymity and we welcome all to use it as a hub for all Anonymous operations, general free speech or any project or group concerned about privacy and looking to build a strong community,” stated the computerised voice now typical of Anonymous video messages.
“We also intend to strengthen our ranks and arm the current and coming generations of internet activists with education. Our plan is to provide classrooms where, on a scheduled basis, ‘teachers’ can give lessons on any number of subjects. This includes but is not limited to: security culture, various hacking tutorials, history lessons and promoting how to properly utilise encryption and anonymity software.”

 
The colleagues at HackRead first reported the Anonymous OnionIRC service and verified that it is still a project in its infancy that needs to be improved, and that has even scanty following.
“Just a few hours later, we checked the new service from Anonymous and to our amusement, there were only 20 people present in the room and out of the 20 just 3 to 4 users had an idea about the new service or even Anon ops. So uninformed were these clueless users in the chat room that they were learning about newly heard terms such as hacking.” states HackRead.
“The organizer, however, tried his best to teach them as comprehensively as possible. The organizer, appearing in the chat room as “Butts,” stated in an open chat session this Tuesday that:
“I wouldn’t expect there to be any planned lessons taught for a bit here.Things are just starting off and we want to see how things go for a bit, hopefully, build a bit of a user base, and then we’ll kick it off with some awesome in-house presentations.””
Internet users that want to access it can follow the procedere available on this link, it is very easy to access, users just need the IRC Client Hexchat  and the Tor Browser.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – OnionIRC, Anonymous)
