
					Indexeus, the search engine which menaced hacking community					
A new search engine for underground hacking dubbed Indexeus has been launched, it retrieves all the available information on user account acquired from hundreds recently data data breaches. The data collected includes information on malicious hackers stolen recent hack, including Adobe and Yahoo!
Recently another search engine captured the attention of security community, Grams Darknet Market Search Engine, specialized for researches in the underground markets, including BlackBank, C9, Evolution, Mr. Nice Guy, Pandora, The Pirate Market, and SilkRoad2.
 

 
The Relinquo’s initial idea is that any hacker that desires to remove its credentials and data from the archive or blacklist himself from the search engine have to pay $1 per record, an economic demand for those wishing to operate in the shadows that will not be accepted willingly. Of course, this is not legal and violates directive like the EU’s “right to be forgotten“. After the popular blog Krebson Security discovered the search engine, Relinquo has changed the terms of service requesting so that users don’t have to pay to remove or completely blacklisted them from the Indexeus.
The Indexeus website also seeks to sensitize its members on security issues and how they data are managed by administrators of various web services they access.
 “The purpose of Indexeus is not to provide private informations about someone [sic], but to protect them by creating awareness. Therefore we are not responsible for any misuse or malicious use of our content and service.” states the disclaimer on the search engine website.
Anyway Indexeus website was rapidly targeted by other hackers, a few days ago the search engine was defaced by hacker group Pernicious Developers which also deployed a backdoor shell on the website.
“This is the Original Pernicious Developers, we’re still here. Even if you don’t know which version of the group who did this.” states the defacement left by the hackers.
In time I’m writing indexeus.org is down.
 
 
 


It’s  my opinion that privacy in today’s society is utopia, search engines like Indexeus are the demonstration that it is quite easy to collect information also on individuals with a a considerable skill.  Data breaches represent an amazing source of data that could be easily obtained and analyzed by mining tools to discover also hidden links between accounts and individuals in the cyberspace.
What do you think about online privacy?
Pierluigi Paganini
Security Affairs –  (Indexeus , hacking)
