
					What is the CyberEurope2014 and why is it so important?					
Cyber security is considered today a pillar for the stability of any government, a growing number of cyber attacks every day hit private companies, government entities and critical infrastructure, these offensive appear even more sophisticated and need a prompts and efficient response.
More than 200 organizations and 400 cyber-security professionals from 29 European countries have been involved in the biggest ever cyber security exercise in Europe, the participant was engaged in a day-long simulation, organized by the European Union Agency for Network and Information Security (ENISA), which intend to evaluate the quality of the response to the cyber threats and the capabilities to mitigate them.
As a part of Cyber Europe 2014, ENISA and all the participant will coordinate their efforts to test the resilience of IT infrastructure and response capacity at various levels in case of a major cyber attack.
Cyber Europe 2014 (CyberEurope2014) this is the name of the exercise organized by ENISA, involved experts from the public and private sectors including cyber security agencies, national CERTs (Computer Emergency Response Teams),  telecoms companies, energy companies, ministries, financial institutions and internet service providers. The CyberEurope2014 exercise was distributed across different countries in Europe, which is coordinated by a central exercise control center.
The cyber security experts know that the above categories are always involved with different roles in large-scale attack campaign, for this reason the ENISA decided to test their procedures and capabilities in a simulation that stressed them.
The exercise is very complex, the experts which organized the #CyberEurope2014 simulated the concurrence of more than 2000 separate cyber-incidents. The casuistry is wide and includes different categories of attacks, including denial of service attacks against online services, cyber espionage campaigns, and attack against critical infrastructure.
A similar initiative was already arranged five years ago, as explained by the Executive Director of ENISA, Professor Udo Helmbrecht, commented:
The #CyberEurope2014 has a crucial importance to test the capabilities of the team on cyber-crisis in Europe, in particular the exercise on the capability to share operational information between the various entities involved. Information sharing and threat intelligence are essential activities to respond to any incident avoiding the propagation of the effects across multiple sectors.
“The #CyberEurope2014 exercise will, among others, test procedures to share operational information on cyber-crisis in Europe; enhance national capabilities to tackle cyber crises; explore the effect of multiple and parallel information exchanges between private-public, private-private at national and international level. The exercise also tests out the EU-Standard Operational Procedures (EU-SOPs), a set of guidelines to share operational information on cyber crisis.” stated the ENISA in an official announcement.
The kind of exercise has a great importance to exchange best practice in procedures and expertise to incentive the growth of a stronger community that is able to tackle transnational cyber-crises.
The CyberEurope2014 is a three phase exercise, and its results will be presented at the end of the year … let’s wait for them.
Pierluigi Paganini
Security Affairs –  (CyberEurope2014, ENISA)
