
					Tor Browser 4_0_4 Release improves security and privacy					
The Tor Project has announced a new release of the Tor Browser Bundle, Tor Browser version 4.0.4, that improves privacy and security features implemented by the popular anonymizing software. The Tor Browser is used by Internet users to browse the Internet in an anonymous way, it implements an Internet browser based on Mozilla Firefox configured to ensure users’ anonymity.

Tor is today considered a secure network that could be used to hide user’s identity online, Tor is the acronym of “The onion router”. Tor client software routes Internet traffic through a worldwide volunteer network of servers hiding user’s information eluding any activities of monitoring. The Tor Project was developed by the US Naval Research Laboratory, but starting from 2004 until 2005 it was supported by the Electronic Frontier Foundation. Actually, the software is under development and maintenance of Tor Project.
The list of new features implemented in the Tor Browser announced by the Tor Project includes:
The new release of the Tor Browser also fixes the following issues
Tor is mostly used by activists, journalists and those individuals that need to circumvent online censorship operated by several governments. Unfortunately, the Tor network is often abused by cyber criminals too, recently I wrote a detailed analysis titled “Hunting malware in the Deep Web” that explains how criminal crews exploit the anonymizing network to hide the control infrastructure of their botnet.

The Tor network is also abused by other categories of criminals, it is considered a secure environment by pedophiles and criminals that want to buy and sell any kind of illegal product in the various black markets available in the network. Last year the anonymizing network was targeted by several attacks with the intent to de-anonymize its users. Other significant events occurred in the 2014 are the Operation Onymous, a joint action of Law enforcement and judicial agencies against dark markets on Tor networks, and adding of 12 high-capacity Tor Middle relays by the Polaris, an initiative by Mozilla, the Tor Project and the Center of Democracy and Technology, that helps to overwhelm limitation of finite number of Tor connections occurring at the same time.
Don’t wast time …. download the new Tor Browser Bundle.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  Tor  Browser, Anonymity)
