
					Hacker Interviews – Speaking with Francisco Moraga aka @BTshell					

You are one of the most respected experts on cyber security. Could you tell me which his your technical background and when you started hacking? 
My name is Francisco Moraga, aka @BTshell, I work on channels like Word Hacker and several blogs, as Highsec. I am an ethical hacker, professional cyber security expert, and pentester, I’ve been doing this since he was 13 years old when I was given my first computer, an Admstrad CPC464.
Although I do not have a specific technique, I consider myself an SUV on computer security, but if I had to define my point of strength, I would emphasize my ability in stress testing audit networks.
 What was your greatest hacking challenge? 
I have to say that I have had many great challenges in my life in relation to the hacking, but certainly. the biggest one is being constantly updated on cyber security events. The threat landscape rapidly change and if you don’t follow them you are out of scene.
What are the 4 tools that cannot be missed in the hacker’s arsenal and why?
Actually, hacking with just 4 tools if impossible, anyway if I had to name four essential tools I say: NMAP, Metasploit, Sqlmap, Acunetix, I reiterate that four tools is a truly poor arsenal for tasks that accompany me daily .
Which are the most interesting hacking communities on the web today? 
There are many important communities in the network dedicated to hacking, but certainly, for my stand the UNderc0de communities, Hhackxcrack or http://elhacker.net , so undoubtedly one of the Spanish-speaking communities in which I learned a lot.
Which is the industry (healthcare, automotive, telecommunication, banking, and so on) most exposed to cyber attacks and why? What scares you more on the internet? 
I think one of the most targeted industries Internet usually banking, for different reasons. Banking is a privileged target for almost any kind of attacker, nation-state actors, hacktivists and cyber criminals.
I’m very concerned also by cyber attacks on the telecommunications infrastructure that are becoming very very common, especially for state-sponsored hackers.
We often hear about cyber weapons and cyber attacks against critical infrastructure. Do you believe concrete the risk of a major and lethal cyber attack against a critical infrastructure? Why and which are the most exposed CI? 
I believe without a doubt that attacks on critical infrastructure are real and constant, from nuclear or thermal power plants to comunicaión infrastructure. Unfortunately the cuts of the budgets are dramatically reducing funds for training, skilled personnel recruiting and security solutions, with unpredictable consequences.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Francisco Moraga, Hacking)
