
					Cybercrime-as-a-Service, a winning model of sale					
The term Cybercrime-as-a-Service refers to the practice in the cybercriminal ecosystem to provide product and services for use by other criminals. In September 2014, a report from Europol’s European Cybercrime Centre (EC3), the 2014 Internet Organised Crime Threat Assessment (iOCTA) report, revealed the diffusion of the business model in the underground communities and highlighted that barriers to entry in cybercrime ring are being lowered even if criminal gangs have no specific technical skills.
Criminals can rent a botnet of machines for their illegal activities, instead to infect thousands of machines worldwide. These malicious infrastructures are built with a few requirements that make them suitable for the criminals, including User-friendly Command and Control infrastructure and sophisticated evasion techniques.
The botnets are very flexible and could be used for several purposes, including to serve malware or to send out spam emails. For example, the botnet’s computers can be configured to serve as proxies or even — once all the other usability has been sucked out of them — as spambots.
An example of banking malware botnet is Vawtrak, also known as NeverQuest and Snifula. According to data provided by Sophos, Vawtrak was the second most popular malware distributed by malicious drive-by downloads in the period between September and November.
Sophos published an interesting paper on the cybercrime-as-a-service model applied to the Vawtrak botnet, titled “Vawtrak – International Crimeware-as-a-Service“.
“If you look at the client-side, the commands used, and the debugging code, suggests that it’s more user friendly than some of the other malware we look at,” said James Wyke, senior threat analyst at Sophos Ltd. “It’s almost certainly going to be a point-and-click Web-based interface. Simplicity is one of Vawtrak‘s positive points.”
Despite Wyke hasn’t personally evaluated the Vawtrak for leal and ethical reasons, Sophos was able to investigate the activities Vawtrak platform is being used for. The experts recognized a pattern in the “modus operandi” of the Vawtrak clients, which used the botnet to target banks and other financial institutions worldwide. The attackers are able to run sophisticated attacks in a methodical way, by-passing two-factor authentication mechanisms and implementing custom injection mechanism.
The experts revealed that Vawtrak was used by criminal organizations inthe US to compromise both large banks (i.e. Bank of America and Citigroup) and smaller financial institutions (i.e. Bank of Oklahoma, Cincinnati’s Fifth Third Bank, the Columbus-based Huntington National Bank).
There are tens of thousands of computers already infected and in the network, Wyke said.

That makes it smaller than some of its competitors but, because of its business model, it might actually be more profitable.
The cybercrime-as-a-service model developed for the Vawtrak botnet allows customers to choose specific types of infected machines, to customize the botnet to hit a specific target (i.e. banks, private firms) or to request specific types of stolen data.
“If you want banking credentials for certain banks, or certain regions of the world, they can start campaigns targeting those banks or those countries,” said Wyke. “We’re moving away from the model where the cybercriminals write their own software, or sell you a kit and you go away and create your own botnet,” Wyke said.
The availability of stolen data makes the model of sale Cybercrime-as-a-Service very attractive to criminals that can use them to run further attacks by having more information on the targets.
The Vawtrak botnet provides also specific data hijacked by the botnet, including banking access credentials, that allows the criminals to deliver new strain of malware to the infected computers.
“This is a flexible business model,” he said. “Once the machine starts sending out spam it becomes obvious that it’s infected with malware and it’s not going to be infected much longer,” he said.
Experts at Sophos suggest to keep defense systems up-to-date and provide a free removal tool for the Vawtrak  botnet on the company website.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  Vawtrak  botnet, cybercrime-as-a-Service)
