
					The Infernal-Twin tool, easy hacking wireless networks					
The Infernal-Twin is an automated tool designed for penetration testing activities, it has been developed to assess wireless security by automating the Evil Twin Attack.
“The tool was created to help the auditors and penetration testers to perform wireless security assessment in a quick manner and easing complex attack vectors.” states Khalilov M, the author.
The bogus Access Point is used to serve to the users in the network faked login pages to steal their Wi-Fi credentials and other sensitive data. The attack scenario could be exploited to run man-in-the-middle attacks or to serve malware to the computers in the targeted network.
First of all you need to install all the components necessary to use the tool, including the Apache module, the mysql database, the Scapy packet manipulation tool for computer networks and the wxtools debugging framework.
Then you have to install the Aircrack-ng utility and get the infernal-twin from the repository.
Aircrack-ng is a network software suite consisting of a detector, packet sniffer, WEP and WPA/WPA2-PSK cracker and analysis tool for 802.11 wireless LANs.
To install the components follow these steps

At this point launch the Infernal-Twin tool with super administrator privileges. Some users experienced problems connecting to the Database, the user @lightos provided the following solution to fix the issue.
Create a new user on the database and use it for launching the tool by following this procedure:
The Infernal -Twin tools implements several features, it provides all the necessary to hack a Wireless network (WPA2, WEP) and easily allows to run Wireless Social Engineering attacks. Below the principal features:
The author of the Infernal-Twin hacking tool, Khalilov M, aka 3ntr0py (entropy1337), announced that next releases will include parsing t-shark log files for gathering victim’s credentials and other data.
In the following video is it illustrated an attack on public network, the script should be able to go and modify the login page and alter the content of it with necessary variables.

Below another video turorial on the Infernal-Twin Tool.

If you are interested in Wireless hacking for penetration testing give a look also to WiFiPhisher, a WiFi social engineering tool that allows an attacker to steal credentials from users of secure WiFi networks.
WiFiPhisher was developed by the Greek security expert George Chatzisofroniou and is available for download on the software development website GitHub.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Infernal-Twin, Wireless hacking)
