
					Wikileaks released documents from Sony hack, the company condemned it					
WikiLeaks organization has leaked online a collection of documents stolen in the  Sony Pictures data breach, more than 30,000 files showing the inner workings of a “secretive” firm.
WikiLeaks  published the documents online in a searchable database, which includes 30,287 documents from the US-based Sony Pictures Entertainment and more than 173,132 emails from 2,200 Sony Pictures email addresses.
“This archive shows the inner workings of an influential multinational corporation. It is newsworthy and at the centre of a geo-political conflict. It belongs in the public domain. WikiLeaks will ensure it stays there.” said WikiLeaks editor-in-chief Julian Assange.
The data appears the same released in November by the GOP hacking team that claimed the responsibility for the attack.

The hackers targeted Sony firm in retaliation against the release of the film “The Interview,” which is the story of a hypothetical CIA plot to kill North Korean supreme leader Kim Jong-un.
The leaked emails include also messages sent by Pascal containing insensitive remarks about President Barack Obama. Following the incident, the Chairperson of the Motion Pictures Group of Sony Pictures Entertainment resigned and Sony cancelled the public debut of the movie.
Among the embarrassing events revealed by the leaked emails, there are documents related to a dinner of the company CEO, Michael Lynton, with Obama and Sony employees to express financial support for the Democratic Party and incoming Democrat New York Governor Andrew Cuomo.
Wikileaks spent its effort to make to index the content and make it searchable with the intent to advantage the journalists and their investigation.
WikiLeaks provides a scaring pictures of the entertainment firm, Sony is an influential organization, with strong ties to the White House, which is able to influence laws and policies of the country
“It is newsworthy and at the center of a geo-political conflict,” continues Julian Assange. “It belongs in the public domain. WikiLeaks will ensure it stays there,” 
Sony has outraged by the initiative of Wikileaks that is inspired by a criminal act and that could advantage new cyber attacks.
“The cyber-attack on Sony Pictures was a malicious criminal act, and we strongly condemn the indexing of stolen employee and other private and privileged information on WikiLeaks,” Sony said in a statement.
Enjoy the archive….
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  Sony Hack, Wikileaks)
