
					Feds arrested hackers involved in the Fappening Hack Investigation					
In 2014 an unknown hacker leaked online nude pictures of celebrities, including the popular and Kate Upton. We are speaking about the case known as The Fappening, the hacker took over a large number of Apple iCloud accounts, including those belonging to the US celebrities.
News in the headline it the capture of the alleged culprit, a new court documents reveal the name of the suspect identified by the FBI, he is the hacker Ed Majerczyk.
Last year, Gawker reported that the FBI had raided the Chicago home of Emilio Herrera, it was suspected of hacking thousands of private iCloud accounts, including the ones cited in the The Fappening saga.
“Herrera’s alleged iCloud cracking went way beyond that narrow list of celebs: between May 31, 2013, and August 31, 2014, his IP address “was used to access approximately 572 unique iCloud accounts,” and “in total, the unique iCloud accounts were accessed 3,263 times.”” states Gawker.
According to the documents obtained by Gawker, there is also another suspect in the security breaches, last October, the agents of the FBI raided the Ed Majerczyk’s home in Chicago, as reported in the following document.
The authorities are charging the man with unauthorized access to the iCloud accounts. The man seems to have accessed the accounts for his home in Chicago, according to the FBI, Majerczyk violated 330 unique iCloud accounts a total of over 600 times in 2014. The hacker accessed the victim’s image gallery and uploaded it on 4chan.
According to court documents obtained by Gawker, The law enforcement has found some sexual photos subtracted to Jennifer Lawrence.
“In October of 2014, the FBI fingered Ed Majerczyk, another Chicago man with a similar laundry list of cloud-based invasions. Among his alleged social engineering exploits were sexual photos lifted from Jennifer Lawrence, who quickly became the face of  The Fappening:”
“The FBI says Majerczyk, through a series of bogus email accounts like “appleprivacysecurity@gmail.com,” created a phishing dragnet that duped very famous victims into providing him with their passwords through some pretty elementary tricks:”Gawker reported.

The hack of the account was a joke for the hacker, for example in the case of Jennifer Lawrence, the celebrity lost access to her iCloud account and then received a fake support email from appleprivacysecurity@gmail.com.
“Your Apple ID was used to login into iCloud from an unrecognized device on Wednesday, August 20th, 2014. Operating System: iOS 5.4 Location: Moscow, Russia (IP=95.108.142.138) If this was you please disregard this message. If this wasn’t you for your protection, we recommend you change your password immediately. In order to make sure it is you changing the password, we have given you a one-time passcode, 0184737, to use when resetting your password at http://applesecurity.serveuser.com/. We apologize for the inconvenience and any concerns about your privacy. Apple Privacy Protection.” is the fake phishing message sent to Jennifer Lawrence.
 
The court documents reveal that Majerczyk run a phishing campaign relying on deceptive web domains and fake security warnings.
The investigation is still ongoing, stay tuned!
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Fappening, celebrity nude photos leak)
