
					A bug in Gnome pic parser can be exploited to run malicious VBScripts					
Another day, another bug in a popular application. A bug in your image thumbnailer could represent a new attack vector for hackers that can exploit it for script injection.
To create image thumbnails, Gnome Files allows users providing filenames as an executable input.
The flaw was detailed by the researchers Nils Dagsson Moskopp who provided useful suggestions to avoid being hacked.
“Thumbnail generation for MSI files in GNOME Files executes arbitrary VBScript.” states Moskopp.
“Delete all files in /usr/share/thumbnailers. Do not use GNOME Files. Uninstall any other software that facilitates automatically executing parts of filenames as code”.
Dagsson Moskopp published a PoC code leveraging Wine to execute VBScript. He tricks Gnome Files into creating an MSI file called badtaste.txt.

Create MSI Files

Execute the following Bourne Shell code:
Start GNOME Files and navigate to the folder with the MSI files. An empty file with the name badtaste.txt should appear.
“Whenever an icon for a Microsoft Windows executable (EXE), installer (MSI), library (DLL), or shortcut (LNK) should be shown, Gnome Files calls /usr/bin/gnome-exe–thumbnailer to either extract an embedded icon from the file in question or deliver a fallback image for the appropriate filetype.” explained the expert.
The expert highlighted that the problem is triggered due to the presence of just one line of code in /usr/bin/gnome-exe-thumbnailer:
“Instead of parsing an MSI file to get its version number, this code creates a script containing the filename for which a thumbnail should be shown and executes that using Wine. The script is constructed using a template, which makes it possible to embed VBScript in a filename and trigger its execution.” Dagsson Moskopp added. 
In order to avoid problems, Dagsson Moskopp suggests developers should not use “ad-hoc parsers” to parse files, should “fully recognise inputs before processing them”, and should use unparsers.
Below the remedy suggestions for both users and developers:
Remedy (for users)

Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Gnome, input validation)
