
					Hacker behind Spamhaus attack will not spend any time in the jail					
The Dutch hacker Sven Olaf Kamphuis who was charged for the massive DDoS attack against the  anti-spam group Spamhaus, the biggest attack of ever, escaped prison Monday.
The Spamhaus Project is an international nonprofit organization that monitors spam and related cyber threats.
It sells information on threat actors to Internet Service Providers, including  blacklists of those malicious websites.
ISPs use these blacklists to filter spam, Kamphuis’s provider Cyber Bunker was included in these lists, this means that Spamhaus blocked its customers. In revenge, Kamphuis launched the attack against the Spamhaus.
Spamhaus blamed CyberBunker for the 2013 DDoS attack, which came just after it blacklisted CyberBunker.

Sven Olaf Kamphuis was arrested in April 2013 by Spanish law enforcement in Barcelona, following a European arrest warrant for the attack against Spamhaus that peaked at over 300 Gbps.
Kamphuis was sentenced to a total of 240 days in jail because most of his term was suspended.
He served 55 days in jail while waiting for the extradition from Spain in 2013 to the Netherlands. Then, the judges suspended the remaining 185 days sentence.
According to the court, the DDoS attacks on Spamhaus company put “the proper functioning of the Internet at risk and thus the interests of many individuals, businesses, and institutions,”
“That attack was on the network of the US Internet company Spamhaus. K. was arrested in Spain in 2013 and extradited to the Netherlands. He had 55 days detained in custody, so he does not go back to jail.” reported the Dutch media.
Kamphuis was sentenced for taking part in a global cybercrime ring that hacked machines worldwide.
In July 2015, another hacker, the British teenager (aka Narko) Seth Nolan Mcdonagh has been sentenced to 240 hours of community service for the attack.
Kamphuis’ lawyers sustained Mcdonagh was the unique responsible for the Spamhaus attack.
Kamphuis will not spend any time in the jail.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Spamhaus attack, DDoS)
