
					Anonymous defaced Russia govt website against Telegram ban					
Anonymous hacked the official website of Russia’s Federal Agency for International Cooperation (Rossotrudnichestvo), the cyber attack occurred on May 10th (Rossotrudnichestvo). The popular collective hacked and defaced the subdomain of the site to protest against the government censorship, with a specific reference to the ban on Telegram. Last month, the Russian authorities blocked the Telegram app in the country because the company refused to hand over encryption keys of its users to Federal Security Service (FSB) of Russia for investigation purposes.
“The website of a government agency tasked with promoting Russia’s image abroad has been hijacked by hackers who posted a message with a threat against the state body involved in a campaign to block a popular messaging app.” reads The Moscow Times.
Since May 3rd, 2018, Russia’s media and communication regularity authority Roskomnadzor blocked over 50 virtual private networks (VPNs), Web Proxies and Anonymizing networks.
Anonymous defaced one of the subdomains of Rossotrudnichestvo, the hackers published the NSFW image and several messages against the ongoing government censorship.
“Greetings, Roskomnadzor. Your recent destructive actions against Runet led us to the idea that you are just a handful of incompetent brainless worms. You no longer have to be able to continue this pointless vandalism. Consider this as our last warning. Yours, Anonymous.” reads the message published on the defaced domain.
Source: Hackread.com 
“That defacement was accompanied by the image of a cartoon character wearing a Roskomnadzor arm patch using a flamethrower on the “internet,” as well as a symbol of Telegram founder Pavel Durov’s “Digital Resistance” which he declared against political censorship.” continues the media outlet.
Currently, the Rossotrudnichestvo website is up and active, while the defaced subdomain prev.rs.gov.ru was offline.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Rossotrudnichestvo, Anonymous)


