
					Darkweb, a look back at 2015 events and 2016 predictions					
The DarkWeb is a set of publicly accessible content that are hosted on websites whose IP address is hidden, but to which anyone can access it as long as it knows the address. The same term is used to indicate a set of private content exchanged in a closed network of computers for file sharing.
A Darknet like the Tor network is so popular in the criminal ecosystem due to the anonymity it offers under specific conditions, law enforcement, and intelligence agencies face difficulties in de-anonymizing users and are not able to conduct a large-scale monitoring.
In 2015 the Darknet, and in particular the black markets assumed a crucial role in the criminal underground, it worked as an aggregator for the principal underground communities.
The most active actors in the darknet were cybercriminals and cyber terrorists, the first group exploited the anonymity of this part of the web to launch attacks against computer hardware and software, to conduct financial crimes and for child pornography.
Malware authors and botmasters have exploited darknets like the Tor Network and I2P to hide the Command and Control infrastructure.
Critroni, Cryptowall, Vawtrak and Dyre just a few samples of malware that exploit the Darknet to hide their control infrastructure.
Another phenomenon linked to the development of malware that exploit the darknet is the increase of the threat actors that started offering product and services to advantage the development and the deployment of malware.

In the criminal underground it is easy to find malware-construction kits that allow easy to build malicious code from existing templates. In May experts at McAfee discovered a sort of easy to use Ransomware builder, this family of malware is becoming even more popular in the criminal ecosystem and crooks are trying to capture this opportunity.
The ransomware-construction kits, dubbed Tox, was available online for free in the Dark Web since May 19.
Apart the sale of drugs, in 2015 we have assisted in the rapid growth of hacking communities in the darknet which were specialized in the sale of product and services for payment card frauds, in the sale of stolen data and hacking services and tools.
The most active underground communities were the Russian one, the US one, the Brazilian one, the Chinese one and also the emerging Japanese one.
Below a list of products/services offered in the principal black markets:
Giving a look to the principal 35 black marketplaces, security experts observed that they raked from $300,000 to $500,000 a day. About 70% of all sellers never managed to sell more than $1,000 worth of products, another 18% of sellers were observed to sell between $1,000 and $10,000 but only about 2% of vendors managed to sell more than $100,000.
But 2015 is considered the year of the terrorism, the ISIS terror is dramatically increased its power becoming the principal threat for the Western countries. The members of the IS exploited the darkweb to share videos and images for propaganda.
Hidden services were also used as repository of mobile apps used by the jihadists to communicate securely.
What to expect in the next 12 months?
Darkweb will continue to be a privileged environment for cyber criminal groups and terrorists.
Malware authors will exploit the Darknets basically as a backup mechanism for their botnet and to make them more resistant to various kinds of attacks operated by law enforcement.
The most interesting trend we will observe related to the growth of criminal-as-a-service model that will attack organized crime in the cyber criminal underground.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Gomasom Ransomware, malware)
