
					Russia has a new anti wiretapping System					
The Russian Government has a new system for the protection of communication channels against the wiretapping, the news was disclosed by the director general of the Interstate Corporation of Development (ICD), Ivan Polyakov, and it was reported by the Russian News agency Tass.
The protection of telephone communication against wiretapping is strategic for any governments, the new system protecting any channels of telephone communication against espionage activities has been designed by a Russian manufacturer.
“The solution has been found that makes it possible to guarantee confidentiality of conversations irrespective of what systems and standards of communications you use,” Polyakov said.
“This is a very interesting solution, we believe it will be in demand on the market,” he said without providing further details on the solution.

The Russian authorities decided to develop a system for the protection of communication channels because the solution available on the don’t match the requirements of the Government.
“The options existing on the market could not satisfy us as a corporation. That is why we started with ourselves, and then decided to offer the product to the market,” he added.
Polyakov explained that components for the protection system were designed and produced directly at enterprises of the ICD.
As reported in the official website of the ICD, the purpose of Corporation establishment is the development of scientific, industrial and high-tech cooperation in Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO) countries.
The ICD was established on January 15, 2011, its is considered of the biggest Russian designers and producers of solution that could protect communication systems.
The Collective Security Treaty Organization is an military alliance, acting as counterpart to the NATO alliance, which was signed on 15 May 1992 and that includes Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – telephone communication protection, wiretapping)
