
					Cybercriminals are increasingly targeting web-connecting Devices including Home Appliances					
It’s the end of the year, a perfect time to look back at the numerous bugs and data breaches that have rocked the Tech world in the recent past.  It’s hard to forget bugs such Heartbleed in 2013, the ShellShock and the Poodle bug which caused a shudder in Silicon Valley earlier this year. Well, Symantec security firms says 2015 won’t be any different either, warning users to get ready for more bugs and highly sophisticated attacks. “In 2015, we can expect attacks to get smarter and sharper,” projects Symantec.
With the advancement of Internet of Things (IoT), attackers now have an array of attack vectors to propagate their heinous acts. More internet connecting devices, from Smartphones to plug and play devices such Smart TV, Smart Fridges and IP cameras, spells doom for the future of internet users.

Every additional device comes with a new vulnerability and a potential security risk.
With every additional “connectivity, comes the potential for a whole new range of security risks,” says Symantec  adding that the “battle between those who want to create new threats and exploit vulnerabilities and those looking to protect against them” will only get worse in 2015.
Symantec projected that smartphones attacks will increase drastically in the coming year as criminals explore new ways of breaking private networks. With the advent of BYOD in the corporate landscape, organization will continually find it difficult to monitor the extent and scope on information making rounds in its employee’s devices.  Most of these devices are poorly secured, making the soft targets for attackers.
The penetration of mobile money banking is expected to give online fraudsters a new lifeline in the coming year. Users relying on poorly secured third party apps to access their bank accounts increase the threat level significantly. The increase in Trojan-bankers and other banking malwares will also continue in 2015. Recently, Brazilian mobile were on the receiving end of a Trojan banker malware masquerading as legitimate banking app on Google Play.
“Mobile devices will become even more valuable as mobile carriers and retail stores transition to mobile payments,” says semantic adding the newly launched payment systems such as Apple will be a top target for cyber criminals trying to exploit Zero-day vulnerabilities. “Should Apple Pay take off as a payment method, attackers are likely to rigorously test the security in place around near-field communication (NFC) payments.”
Automation of home and office is another potential risk to watch out for in 2013.  As every device become smart from TV’s, thermostats, car appliances, Baby monitors and surveillance cameras, hackers too become even smarter and more sophisticated. Some of designers of the appliances make little or no cyber security consideration while designing the products.
“We won’t see any large-scale attacks leveraging IoT, but instead one-off attacks against connected devices like home routers, smart TVs and connected car apps, for example, for sensitive and private information,” said Symantec.
Cloud storages and privacy violation will be a sticky issue in 2015. With security breaches such Apple’s iCloud hack still fresh in our minds, security talks in the coming year will revolve around Cloud storage.
“The cloud in 2015 represents an infinite amount of personal information being hosted remotely and debate around the right to access, control, and protect private data in the cloud will continue to escalate,” said Symantec. With more personal data getting on the cloud so are the number of attacks expected to increase.
Written by: Ali Qamar, Founder/Chief Editor at SecurityGladiators.com
Author Bio:
Ali Qamar is an Internet security research enthusiast who enjoys “deep” research to dig out modern discoveries in the security industry. He is the founder and chief editor at SecurityGladiators.com, an ultimate source for worldwide security awareness having supreme mission of making the internet more safe, secure, aware and reliable. Follow Ali on Twitter @AliQammar57
Pierluigi Paganini 
(Security Affairs – hacking, IoT)
