
					Adobe patches tens of vulnerabilities in Flash Player, Shockwave Player, Captivate and Digital Editions					
Some vulnerabilities fixed by Adobe are critical remote code execution issue, the last release, version 26.0.0.126, addressed nine flaws in Flash Player.
The vulnerabilities were tracked as CVE-2017-3075, CVE-2017-3081, CVE-2017-3083, CVE-2017-3084, CVE-2017-3076, CVE-2017-3077, CVE-2017-3078, CVE-2017-3079, and CVE-2017-3082.
“Adobe has released security updates for Adobe Flash Player for Windows, Macintosh, Linux and Chrome OS. These updates address critical vulnerabilities that could potentially allow an attacker to take control of the affected system. ” states the security advisory. 
The vulnerabilities in Adobe are classified as critical use-after-free and memory corruption flaws that can be exploited by attackers to remote code execution.

The flaws have been reported by the researchers bee13oy of CloverSec Labs, Jihui Lu of Tencent KeenLab, and researchers from Google Project Zero reported the issues to Adobe.
Adobe also fixed nine vulnerabilities in the Digital Editions ebook reader, four of which are critical memory corruptions that can be exploited for remote code execution. The remaining vulnerabilities, classified as important, that can lead to privilege escalation and memory address disclosure.
These flaws were reported to Adobe by experts from Tencent, Fortinet, CTU Security and Japan-based researcher Yuji Tounai.
“Adobe has released a security update for Adobe Digital Editions for Windows, Macintosh, iOS and Android. This update resolves critical memory corruption vulnerabilities that could lead to code execution, three vulnerabilities rated important that could lead to escalation of privilege and two memory corruption vulnerabilities rated important that could lead to disclosure of memory addresses.” states the advisory.
Adobe fixed an important information disclosure flaw in the Windows and Macintosh versions of Adobe Captivate, a smart authoring platform to create responsive eLearning content.
“Adobe has released security updates for Adobe Captivate for Windows and Macintosh. These updates resolve an important information disclosure vulnerability (CVE-2017-3087) resulting from abuse of the quiz reporting feature in Captivate. ” states the advisory.
The last issue was reported by Fortinet, it is a remote code execution vulnerability in Shockwave Player for Windows.
“Adobe has released a security update for Adobe Shockwave Player for Windows. This update addresses a critical memory corruption vulnerability that could lead to code execution. ” states the advisory.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Adobe, Flash Player)
