
					Facebook Capture The Flag is now open source. Learn to hack!					
Are you interested in testing your hacking abilities? Facebook is offering a secure opportunity for you by opening it Capture The Flag (CTF) platform to test hacking skills in a legally safe environment and for free.
“Today, Facebook hopes to make security education easier and more accessible, especially for students, with the release of our Capture the Flag (CTF) platform to open source on GitHub! CTFs provide a safe and legal way to try your hand at hacking challenges. This new platform also takes advantage of other Facebook open source projects including HHVM and Flow.” states the official announcement issued by Facebook.

Facebook aims to encourage wannabe hackers and security experts to learn and test their cyber capabilities and secure coding practices.
As explained in the post, the cost and technical requirements of building and running CTF environments are high, so the experts at Facebook decided to make publicly available the necessary resources.
Capture the Flag hacking competitions are very common in the hacking communities, they represent an important aggregation moment when hackers learn new techniques and exchange information for their growth.
Thanks to Capture the Flag hacking contexts it is possible to identify young talented people, so Facebook began hosting college-level CTF competitions in 2013.
The fact that Facebook is open sourcing its Capture the Flag platform is a very important step for the growth of a global hacking community. Now every organization can autonomously host its competition and arrange live sessions to teach computer hacking.

Which kind of challenges the Capture The Flag platform offer?
The environment allows wannabe hackers to test their hacking capabilities in several activities, including reverse-engineering, forensics, and binary exploitation.
“The current set of challenges include problems in reverse-engineering, forensics, web application security, cryptography, and binary exploitation. You can also build your own challenges to use with the Facebook platform for a customized competition,” the post continues.
Hurry up, try it!
https://github.com/facebook/fbctf
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Facebook Capture The Flag, hacking)
