
					Nuclear Plants in Germany Are Vulnerable to Terrorism Threats					
According to a recently released report, Germany is not adequately equipped to prevent terrorist attacks in its nuclear plants.
According to the Deutsche Presse-Agentur (DPA) news agency, the report was presented by Oda Becker, an independent expert on nuclear plants.
This is of course extremely distressing, especially in the light of the recent tragic events in Belgium with substantial casualties.
The report was brought to public attention at the German Federation for the Environment and Nature Conservation (BUND) Congress, where concerns were expressed towards protecting citizens from catastrophic consequences of another terrorist attack.
When an aircraft is about to collide, there is little that can be done from the defensive line of the nuclear plants to prevent the inevitable.
The same level of threat is expressed through the option of helicopters filled with explosives. There is nothing to prevent such acts, causing a massive destruction and severe radiation flowing everywhere.
Terrorism is one of the major threats to the industry of nuclear plants, making these facilities one of the most prestigious targets to focus on.
“A serious accident is possible in case of every German nuclear plant,” Becker explained in a separate study published on March 8 and titled “Nuclear power 2016 – secure, clean, everything under control?”
Becker considers insufficient security standards, natural disasters, terrorist attacks and emergencies caused by the deterioration of the German nuclear plants’ security systems as major threats to the industry.
“there are no appropriate accident management plans.” she added Becker. “The interim [nuclear waste] storages lack protection against aircraft crashes and dangers posed by terrorists,” Becker said,

The media in Belgium concentrate on the initial thoughts of the terrorists to hit the nuclear plants. If it weren’t for the arrest in Paris, these thoughts would have been made reality and the casualties would have been even greater. Dernier Heure, a newspaper from Belgium, revealed that the terrorists had planted a camera in front of the house of the director of the Belgian nuclear research program. In this way, they had gained a lot of information.
All these events have made a lot of people skeptical as to the importance of shutting down nuclear plants. The head of BUND, Hubert Weiger, has said:
“It is even more necessary than ever to abandon this technology,” and this thought reflects the opinions of thousands in Germany, Belgium and Europe altogether.
AP has reported that IS (or ISIS) has been training hundreds of people especially for external attacks and this would be a threat beyond any control. About 450 people are specials in creating bombs, deteriorating the situation for Europe.
If people in Germany and Belgium do not take immediate actions, who knows what can happen next?
Author Bio:
Ali Qamar is an Internet security research enthusiast who enjoys “deep” research to dig out modern discoveries in the security industry. He is the founder and chief editor at Security Gladiators, an ultimate source for cyber security. To be frank and honest, Ali started working online as a freelancer and still shares the knowledge for a living. He is passionate about sharing the knowledge with people, and always try to give only the best. Follow Ali on Twitter @AliQammar57.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Terrorism, nuclear plants)
