
					Garage4hackers – An open Information Security Community. w00t! w00t!					
Who are we?
Garage4hackers is one of the oldest open information security community for Information Security enthusiast and aspirants on the internet. We started off as an Orkut Community “Hackers Garage” back in 2007 and today we have more than 6K members sharing knowledge across various fields of infosec.
“Our mission is to spread Infosec education for free to the masses.”

We connect newbies, security researchers, Experts, and evangelist. Every member of our community is highly interactive, approachable and ensures helping other information security aspirants by providing viable resources, spreading best security practices and promoting research-based activities.
Knowledge sharing is unlimited among all our members and therefore we end up discussing on a wide range of Information Security topics which includes Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration Testing of Web Application, Mobile Application, Wireless and Bluetooth hacking, Computer Forensics and Incident Handling, Physical Security and Social Engineering, Cloud Security and sometimes, Meanest hack, Exploitation techniques, Browser fuzzing, Botnet, Malware and Root-kits Analysis, Reverse Engineering and much more.
Some of our achievements.
We are Family of around 6k+ users, 8k+ posts with more than 32k unique visitors on our forum. More than 20k viewers on YouTube from 20+ countries. Our core member had reported 40+ Best Bug Bounty to vendors including Google, Facebook, Yahoo and so on. 30+ CVE’s for web browsers such as Chrome, Internet Explorer, Firefox & Safari. We do Information Security research on unique areas such as Biometric Systems, Physical Locks, Cable TV Networks, Data-cards, Drones, Threat detection using Cloud-based Machine Learning Technology and so on. We believe in the open source culture and some of our core members had contributed towards the open source community, The project list follows :
We build our own tools and scripts for various testing techniques and vulnerability exploitation. We release them on our garage for free.
Garage4hackers Initiatives.
Ranchoddas Webcast Series.
Ranchoddas webcast is dedicated to bringing together the best in Information Security Research and Infosec enthusiasts. Each of our webcast includes high-level industry speakers and researchers speaking on latest cutting edge topics. This initiative aims to provide knowledge and relevant advice which our viewers can take away and implement in the workplace for further personal development. Our webcasts are absolutely free and open to all. Our aim is to make knowledge free to use, reuse or redistribute without any restriction. Below are some of our webcast conducted in the past.
Register now! for our upcoming webcast on Bypassing Modern WAF’s Exemplified At XSS by Rafay Baloch
Question & Answers portal.
Your security audit issues! Having any problem understanding a malware or detecting it!  or Vulnerability you are not able to understand or any type of security-related problems put it on the board for the discussion among like-minded professionals.
Q&A portal for the open discussion and sharing of ideas and problems arising in accomplishing those ideas.
Not only limited to this, This portal can help bridge the gap for the curious security professionals across the industry and provide them with an open discussion platform to seek solutions specific to their problems arising while performing any type of information security research.
Join our Open Question and Answer community.
Garage4hackers relief donation
Kashmir Flood Relief donation.
In September 2014 Kashmir, India was hit by a severe flood. The death toll rose to 200+. Huge damage was done to the state. One of our Garage member Rashid Bhat is from Kashmir, India. We were able to raise  Rs. 1 Lac from our Members. The money we had raised were used to buy Medicines, Blankets, Food and other emergency amenities. Rashid himself had gone to Kashmir with the aids. Garage4hackers had then started a new challenge for the hacker community wherein they would participate in bug bounty program and donate that money for relief program. We got an overwhelming response from the community.

Chennai Flood Relief donation.
In December 2015 Chennai, India received heavy rainfall over a huge period of time resulted in a flood. Thousands of residents were fleeing out of the city. A lot of people had lost their home & means of livelihood. We were again successful in collecting relief funds. Garage4hackers member Eberly and Amol personally went to Chennai to deliver the relief materials collected.
Join us in our mission to hack to secure and spread free Information Security knowledge across the globe.
Facebook :  https://www.facebook.com/Garage4Hackers
Twitter    :    @garage4hackers
Youtube  :  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCDqagqREZlmJitWco-yPtvw
Written by: Imdadullah Mohammed
Author Bio: Imdad is an Information Security Consultant, He is also a Moderator for Pune Chapter of Null – The open security community in India and Also member of Garage4hackers. A true open source and Information Security enthusiast. His core area of expertise includes Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration Testing of the Web application, Mobile application and Networks, as well as Server Hardening.


(Security Affairs – Garage4hackers, hacking)
