
					ScryptCC hacked, large amount of Bitcoin stolen. DO NOT DEPOSIT!					
The news of another clamorous case of Bitcoin theft is circulating on the Internet, Altcoin cloud mining hash power online marketplace ScryptCC has been hacked. In time I’m writing it is not known the exact the amount of stolen Bitcoin neither the computational hashing power that has been abused. The announcement of the ScryptCC hack was posted by the admin Marcelo Santos and it is publicly available to the users once authenticated to the online service.
According the first information disclosed about the incident, the attacker hacked the platform during an upgrade.
The hacker credited himself BTC and KHS has stolen all the Bitcoin from the wallet of the ScryptCC service, which represents the a major percentage of the overall amount of virtual currency stolen by the attacker.
“Around 14 hours ago our database was breached, the hacker credited himself BTC and KHS and withdrew BTC until our withdraw wallet was empty. He then proceeded to make suspicious orders in the market in which the market automatically turned itself off. This sent an alert to me and other support staff, one of them seeing what was happening but not being able to do much as he does not have back-end access, he enabled our “Panic” mode in which put the whole site on lock down. But the hackers still managed to gain access and steal the coins from the hot wallet and the backup withdraw wallet.” Bad news: We had a large amount of BTC stolen, most of which were ours. Good news: Our server runs hourly database backups and a backup was made minutes before their first attack and right before the lock down. So all user information is safe.
The administrator confirmed that all the information related to the Scrypt.CC platform, including users’ data, was not lost due to the availability of recent backups.
The ‘Status’ section of the ScryptCC website is currently empty and the server offline to allow investigation.

In this moment is suggested to the users to NOT MAKE ANY MORE DEPOSITS SINCE THE HACKERS STILL HAVE ACCESS TO THE HOTWALLETS.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – ScryptCC, cybercrime)
