
					Third suspect arrested in connection with the TalkTalk breach					
While the investigation of the TalkTalk data breach is going on, a third man has been arrested in connection with the hack. The third unnamed suspect is a 20-year-old man from Staffordshire, he has been released on bail until March after he was arrested by law enforcement under the country’s Computer Misuse Act.
Investigators believe that he is a member of the group that hacked the telco firm TalkTalk stealing 1.2 million customer details (email addresses, names, and phone numbers, dates of birth) along with nearly 28,0000 partial credit and debit cards.
On October 26, the UK Metropolitan Police has announced the arrest of a 15-Year-Old in connection to the data breach. Law enforcement from the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) have identified the youngster and arrested him on suspicion of Computer Misuse Act offenses.

In a statement, the UK Metropolitan Police announced that officers from the Police Service of Northern Ireland, working with detectives from the MPCCU (MET Cyber Crime Unit) executed a search warrant at an address in County Antrim, Northern Ireland.
“At the address, a 15-year-old boy was arrested on suspicion of Computer Misuse Act offences. He has been taken into custody at a County Antrim police station where he will later be interviewed. A search of the address is ongoing and enquiries continue. This is a joint investigation by MPCCU detectives, the PSNI’s Cyber Crime Centre (CCC) and the National Crime Agency,” the statement added.
Some days later, on October 20, the UK Police have arrested a second individual as part of the investigation into the TalkTalk security breach, also in this case the suspect is a teenager. According to the Metropolitan Police, the second suspect is a 16-year-old boy from Feltham. The teen was arrested by the agents of the Cyber Crime Unit on suspicion of Computer Misuse Act offences and was later bailed.
The Register reported that victims of the cyber attack have the faculty to leave TalkTalk and terminate the contract without problem.
“Customers wanting to leave the popped telco will need to have had money stolen on or after 21 October as a result of the hack, and have contacted the fraud department.” states the The Register “TalkTalk says it is not accepting liability for other possible expenses customers may have to bear as a result of the breach.”
Stay Tuned.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – TalkTalk, data breach)
