
					Anonymous Took Down 20,000 pro-ISIS Twitter accounts					
In the wake of Paris attacks the hacking collective Anonymous launched its offensive against the ISIS with the intent to interfere with the online propaganda and reveal the identity of its members.
The #OpParis follows the precedent #OpISIS launched in the last months by Anonymous.
In the video message published by Anonymous, the groups announced that his members will catch ISIS members online. An avatar of Anonymous with a strong French accent declared “total war” to the terrorists.
In a new video published on YouTube on Wednesday, Anonymous announced to have identified and taken down More than 20,000 Pro-ISIS Twitter accounts:
“More than 20,000 Twitter accounts belonging to ISIS were taken down by Anonymous.”
Anonymous has also published the list of all the pro-ISIS Twitter accounts it has taken down.
A spokesman in the video announced:
“Hello, citizens of the world. We are Anonymous. It is time to realize that social media is a solid platform for ISIS’s communication as well as neutering their ideas of terror amongst youth. However, at the same time, social media has proved it is an advanced weapon. We must all work together and use social media to eliminate the accounts used by terrorists.” states the message.
“ISIS, we will hunt you and take down your sites, accounts, emails and expose you. From now on, there is no safe place for you online. You will be treated like a virus, and we are the cure,”

It is an escalation of the hacking activities started after the Paris Attacks, on Tuesday Anonymous claimed to have taken down more than 5,500 pro-ISIS Twitter accounts.
But, the ISIS is known to be a terrorist group with significant cyber abilities, especially the management of propaganda through social media.
The ISIS has considered strategic the use of technology, recently I described the content of the ISIS guide published by the organization to provide information to its members to avoid online surveillance.
Recently the US intelligence has also identified a training infrastructure that works with a sort of h24 help desk to provide information to the ISIS members and recruit new sympathizers.
Throw out the ISIS from the Internet is very challenging, the ISIS militants are ready to cyber jihad and called Anonymous  “IDIOTS”.
Recently the group is making large use of the encrypting message service Telegram, security experts discovered broadcast messages used to provide instructions to the ISIS members on how to avoid getting hacked by Anonymous.

Stay Tuned.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – ISIS, Anonymous, pro-ISIS Twitter accounts)
