
					Pangu cracking team has released the iOS 9 jailbreak					
Every time a new release of the popular Apple iOS is presented, hackers and experts start the competition to jailbreak it. One of the most active hacking crew in this sense is Pangu that has announced today they had successfully jailbroken several different iterations of iOS 9.  The iOS 9 jailbreak is arrived!
The same cracking team in October released a software that allowed Apple users to jailbreak their mobile devices using  iOS 8 and iOS 8.1
Jaibreaking the iOS device, users can bypass security restrictions and download apps from unofficial app repositories (i.e. Cydia). The procedure is also used to switch to a differed telecom operator when the device is locked.
The group issued the announced through its Twitter account:
We are very excited to announce the release of Pangu 9, the first untethered jailbreak tool for iOS 9 (http://t.co/0ksOanTGRF).
— PanguTeam (@PanguTeam) 14 Ottobre 2015

The Pangu group confirmed that their iOS 9 jailbreak works correctly on iOS versions 9.0-9.0.2 and according to the feedbacks received by several users it is true.

Apple did not respond to a request for comment.
Device Jailbrek is also used by hackers to install on the target device a malware, the technique is very common among surveillance companies that use it to bypass security measured on the device.
The surveillance company Hacking Team exploited device jailbreaking in order to infect the device with its spyware.
Recently the company Zerodium Exploit trader offered a million dollar prize to any person that finds zero-day flaws in iOS 9, and it is unnecessary to tell you the reasons for the proposal.
The Pangu’s iOS 9 jailbreak anyway doesn’t match the bounty conditions because it requests a user to download a file on a Windows computer to jailbreak their device instead the Zerodium firm doesn’t want any user interaction.
“The whole exploitation/jailbreak process should be achievable remotely, reliably, silently, and without requiring any user interaction except visiting a web page or reading a SMS/MMS (attack vectors such as physical access, bluetooth, NFC, or baseband are not eligible for the Million Dollar iOS 9 Bug Bounty. ZERODIUM may, at its sole discretion, make a distinct offer to acquire such attack vectors.).” are the bounty conditions.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Pangu iOS 9 jailbreak, ios hacking)
