
					Two alleged members of Crackas With Attitude group arrested for hacking US Gov Officials					
The FBI has identified and arrested two men from North Carolina men that are suspected to be members of the notorious ‘Crackas With Attitude‘ hacker group that dumped details of government agents last year.
The hackers leaked the personal details of 31,000 government agents belonging to nearly 20,000 FBI agents; 9,000 Department of Homeland Security (DHS) officers and some number of DoJ staffers.

Crackas with Attitude went in the headlines due to the of senior officials at the CIA, FBI, the White House, Homeland Security Department, and other US federal agencies.
In October 2015 the group violated the CIA Director’s personal email account and leaked sensitive files including a top-secret application for a security clearance.
In January 2016, a hacker associated with the Crackas With Attitude group has accessed accounts belonging to the director of National Intelligence, James Clapper. The group also broke into the AOL email of the FBI Deputy Director Mark Giuliano.
The two suspects arrested by the authorities are Andrew Otto Boggs (22), of North Wilkesboro, N.C., who went online with the handle “INCURSIO,” and Justin Gray Liverman (24), of Morehead City, who used the handle “D3F4ULT.”
According to a press release by Department of Justice, the two men were arrested on Thursday morning on charges of computer hacking.
“Andrew Otto Boggs, aka “INCURSIO,” 22, of North Wilkesboro, North Carolina, and Justin Gray Liverman, aka “D3F4ULT,” 24, of Morehead City, North Carolina, were arrested today on charges related to their alleged roles in the computer hacking of several senior U.S. government officials and U.S. government computer systems.” reads the press release.
“According to charging documents filed with the court, Boggs and Liverman conspired with members of a hacking group that called itself “Crackas With Attitude.”  From about October 2015 to February 2016, the group used “social engineering” hacking techniques, including victim impersonation, to gain unlawful access to the personal online accounts of senior U.S. government officials, their families, and several U.S. government computer systems. “

In February, British police and the FBI arrested a 16-year-old British teenager suspected of being a member of the dreaded group.
“In some instances, members of the conspiracy uploaded private information that they obtained from victims’ personal accounts to public websites; made harassing phone calls to victims and their families; and defaced victims’ social media accounts,” reads the press release.According to the FBI officials, between October 2015 to February 2016, the hacking group used social engineering in order to trick the victims into revealing their account number, password, and other details.
The two men will have their initial appearances at the federal courthouse in Alexandria next week in front of U.S. Magistrate Judge Theresa Carroll Buchanan.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Crackas With Attitude, hackers)
