
					Serious security issues affect 14 of 17 major antivirus engines					
The security researcher at Singapore-based consultancy COSEINC, Joxean Koret, has discovered different flaws in 14 of 17 major antivirus engines. The researcher has presented the results of his study (PDF) at the recent SyScan 360 security conference in Beijing this month. Koret explained how he had used a custom fuzzing suite to discover exploitable local and remote flaws in popular antivirus engines, the list of affected products is long and includes solutions offered by vendors such as Avast, AVG, Avira, Bitdefender, Comodo, DrWeb, ESET, F-Prot, F-Secure and Panda.
The antivirus engine is the core of any antivirus solution, different engines are used by multiple products, for example BitDefender is the most widely used antivirus kernel (e.g. G-Data, eScan, F-Secure).
As illustrated by Koret in his presentation different anti-virus software offer too much administrator privilege that could be exploited by an attacker to conduct man-in-the-middle (MiTM).
The principal flaws discovered by the researcher are buffer and heap overflow vulnerabilities, local escalation of privileges and file format bugs. Many of the vulnerabilities disclosed are “nothing new”, but anyway we can consider this presentation as the first time a researcher had publicly revealed such extensive faults affecting major anti-virus engines.

The court explained that HTTP connections, ordinarily used for updates represents one of the most concerning security issues, due the lack of proper validation mechanisms, the expert also revealed that major vendors often fail to review their code.
“Some AV companies don’t give a f**k about security in their products,” said Koret.
We must be aware that antivirus software, like any other code, could be affected by vulnerabilities exploitable to compromise our systems … the principal difference with other applications resides in the high privileges that have to run that gives the attacker a higher power.
Pierluigi Paganini
Security Affairs –  (Antivirus, hacking)
