
					American and Indian ICT experts to collaborate in strengthening India’s ICT					
The collaboration between experts from the US and India in a bid to help India realize its ICT projects has been well received by expected beneficiaries.The collaboration will see India move towards automation and subsequently simplification of many government processes in India.
Some of the programs that are expected to benefit from this new agreement include e-service to citizens and e-governance. Under the e-services programs, the Indian government will be able it for example provide registration of person services, motor vehicle registration, collection of license fees and other services with ease. Under e-governance, the Indian government will be able to run government programs online.
In addition, the collaboration will allow the Indian government to bring ICT infrastructure to the villages. This will mean that the people will be able to for example access the Internet from areas where the Internet was previously inaccessible. The  new access to the digital world will impact the Indian economy in many ways. One of the ways through which this will be exhibited is by the increase in jobs and innovation. The fast flow of information will mean that many companies and businesses will increase their communication and cut costs, meaning that business will thrive in India.
The collaboration will also enable the Indian people access the wealth of knowledge that is accessible through the Internet, thereby allowing them to improve themselves.
Some of the issues that came up during the meeting include the drafting of laws which are needed to keep the Internet safe and therefore useful to the Indian people. The meeting also saw issues of distribution of broadband discussed. India is one of the countries in the world with a large mobile phones market.In addition, it has been reported that over 70% of India’s internet page views come from mobile devices. With that kind if statistics, it makes sense that the meeting would discuss improving  accessibility of the Internet via mobile broadband.
The meeting also discussed the movement of skilled labor within the ICT space internationally. The participants felt that India would benefit if the skilled workers were allowed to easily move in and out of the US. This would help them acquire additional skills and experience in the US where the Internet economy is quite advanced.

Another important point of discourse from the meeting between the Indian and Us experts was the strengthening of the digital economy in India. While there are a few Internet-based businesses in India, there still needs to be a lot more done if the Internet businesses will be able to provide jobs and impact lives in a big way.
At the end of the two-day meeting, the players resolved to have another US-India ICT Working Group meeting in India before the end of the year.
Written by: Ali Qamar, Founder/Chief Editor at SecurityGladiators.com
Author Bio:
Ali Qamar is an Internet security research enthusiast who enjoys “deep” research to dig out modern discoveries in the security industry. He is the founder and chief editor at Security Gladiators, an ultimate source for cyber security. To be frank and honest, Ali started working online as a freelancer and still shares the knowledge for a living. He is passionate about sharing the knowledge with people, and always try to give only the best. Follow Ali on Twitter @AliQammar57
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  Denmark, cyber warfare)
