
					Hacker Interviews – Anonandmore					

 
You are a talented hacker that is very active online, could you tell me more about you. Could you tell me which his your technical background and when you started hacking? 
I started a few years ago when I realized that governments control everyone and I wanted to know what I could stop them. So, I wondered how I could use technology to my advantage and stop government surveillance.
I started by picking up encryption and skills I would need to stop law enforcement from monitoring me. Then I had found out about the darker side of the internet searching for the way to hide myself, not just from the government, but also from other people.
That is where I developed certain skills, in particular, social engineering.
Which are your motivations?
I do things for a laugh and also because I never agreed how western countries interfere in our life. But not only governments are threatening our privacy, what scares me is that everyone can spy on us.
What was your greatest hacking challenge? Which was your latest hack? Can you describe me it? 
I can’t reveal it, but I can tell you that it was something to do with malware. Regarding my latest “hack” I cannot reveal it because currently it is too close to the time of doing the attack and I don’t want disclose it because I don’t want get caught.
What are the 4 tools that cannot be missed in the hacker’s arsenal and why? 
Which are the most interesting hacking communities on the web today, why? 
I would say that the two most interesting hacking groups I have heard about since now are Ghost Squad Hackers, Lizard Squad, and PoodleCorp alliance.
Ghost Squad hackers seem to be pretty successful and have been around for a good amount of time now for everything they have done. it kind of makes me suspicious but also makes me interested in them
As for the PoodleCorp and Lizard Squad Alliance, the reason I like them is because they do it for the lulz.
Did you participate in hacking attacks against the IS propaganda online? When? How? Where do you find IS people to hack? 
Personally, I don’t hack IS, I find it a waste of time. I only report accounts to their enemies.
How do you choose your targets? We often hear about cyber weapons and cyber attacks against critical infrastructure. Do you believe it is real the risk of a major and lethal cyber attack against a critical infrastructure?
Yes, I do. The threats of attacks on critical infrastructure is concrete, this is where warfare is going for sure. We already have examples hacking from Russia. The question is why store data on a system exposed of Internet that could be easily hacked. Anyone can open the door of your house.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  Hacker, Anonandmore)
