
					Hamas hacked the programming at Israeli TV Channel 10					
The effects of the conflict between Israel and Palestin are evident also in the cyberspace, group of hacktivists, including Anonymous, are targeting Israeli Government websites to protest against recent strikes that killed many innocent civilians.
Recently the Facebook page of Domino’s Pizza in Israel was defaced by hackers who was threatening the Israeli Government.
“Today will strike deep in Israel, Tel Aviv, Haifa, Jerusalem, Ashkelon, Ashdod more than 2000 rockets. We’ll start at 7. Counting back towards the end of Israel … Be warned!”
While TV broadcasters all over the world are spreading the images of cruel bombardments, a singular event has attracted the security community. Al-Qassam Brigades, the military wing of the Palestinian political organization Hamas, claimed responsibility for a cyber attack on the satellite Israeli TV Channel 10. The hackers were able to interrupt the scheduled programming and to transmit an unscheduled transmission calling for an end to Israeli airstrikes in Gaza, the hackers replaced media files with their own footage.

The hackers took over the satellite feed of Channel 10 for a few minutes, spreading images of  injured Palestinian and Hamas militants accompanied by messages in Hebrew like this one:
“Your government chose to begin this campaign. If your government won’t agree to our terms then prepare yourselves for a drawn-out stay in bomb shelters.” states the Ynetnews agency.
Below the video that was viewed by Israeli TV viewers:

“If you don’t want your sons to be prisoners or to be killed then call them quickly to go back home.”
In time I’m writing, there are no details on the attack conducted by Hamas sympathizers, it is likely that hackers succeeded to compromise the servers at Channel 10, exploiting a wrong configuration of defense systems or targeting personnel at the TV station with a spear phishing attack.
The hackers are trying to sensitize the public opinion on the dramatic events that are happening in Gaza and that according to Hamas are only killing innocent people.
I will not discuss political motivations between the two opponents, but I would not want to see more innocent people who are crying their victims, I would not read most of the children who are killed by bombs.
 Peace for everybody all!
Pierluigi Paganini
Security Affairs –  (Hamas, hacking)
