
					Cisco fixes critical and high severity flaws in Policy Suite and SD-WAN products					
The tech giant has reported customers four critical vulnerabilities affecting the Policy Suite.
The flaws tracked as CVE-2018-0374, CVE-2018-0375, CVE-2018-0376, and CVE-2018-0377 have been discovered during internal testing.
Two of these flaws could be exploited by a remote unauthenticated attacker to access the Policy Builder interface and the Open Systems Gateway initiative (OSGi) interface.
The access to the Policy Builder interface could allow an attacker to change to existing repositories and create new ones, while the access to the OSGi interface could allow an attacker to access or change any file accessible by the OSGi process.
An unauthenticated attacker could also allow an attacker to modify any data contained in the Policy Builder database.
“A vulnerability in the Policy Builder database of Cisco Policy Suite could allow an unauthenticated, remote attacker to connect directly to the Policy Builder database.” reads the security advisory published by Cisco.
“The vulnerability is due to a lack of authentication. An attacker could exploit this vulnerability by connecting directly to the Policy Builder database. A successful exploit could allow the attacker to access and change any data in the Policy Builder database.”

Cisco also warned of the presence of the Cluster Manager in Policy Suite of a root account with default and static credentials. A remote attacker can exploit the vulnerabilities to access to the account and execute arbitrary commands with root privileges.
Cisco also warned of the presence of seven flaws in the SD-WAN solution, one of them affects the Zero Touch Provisioning service and could be exploited by an unauthenticated attacker to trigger denial-of-service (DoS) condition.
Other SD-WAN vulnerabilities could allow an authenticated attacker to overwrite arbitrary files on the underlying operating system, and execute arbitrary commands with vmanage or root privileges.
Cisco also reported a high severity DoS vulnerability that affects Nexus 9000 series Fabric switches, the issue resides in the implementation of the DHCPv6 feature.
Cisco fixed all the vulnerabilities and confirmed that none of them has been exploited in attacks in the wild.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Cisco Policy Suite, security)
