
					ISIS – Disclosed thousands of files reporting the identity of 22,000 Jihadis					
Thousands of documents reporting the identity of 22,000 Jihadis are handed to Sky News by a former member of the ISIS radical organisation. The documents contain 22,000 names, addresses, telephone numbers and family contacts of ISIS members.
Sky News has obtained a memory stick containing the files that were stolen from the head of Islamic State’s internal security police. The man who stole the memory stick was a former Free Syrian Army convert to Islamic State who calls himself Abu Hamed.
“Disillusioned with the Islamic State leadership, he says it has now been taken over by former soldiers from the Iraqi Baath party of Saddam Hussein.” states SkyNews.
The journalists met him in a secret location in Turkey, the man revealed that the IS was giving up on its headquarters in Raqqa and moving into the central deserts of Syria and ultimately Iraq.
The list of the ISIS members includes militants from more than 51 countries, including the UK. The document is a sort of IS registration form composed of 23 questions that wannabe members had to fill with their personal information.
There are many previously unknown European jihadis in the documents, as well as IS members from the Middle East, North Africa, United States and Canada.
Many names are already known to the Western Intelligence, anyway the presence of the documents online is very important for different reasons. It is essential to understand who really, and how, has obtained the documents.
One of the documents, titled “Martyrs,” includes a list of members ready to carry out suicide attacks, these terrorists have been already trained for such kind of operations.
We cannot exclude that they could be also part of a diversionary strategy of the IS group.
“Abdel Bary, a 26-year-old from London joined in 2013 after visiting Libya, Egypt and Turkey. He is designated as a fighter but is better known in the UK as a rap artist. His whereabouts are unknown. Another jihadi named in the documents, now dead after being targeted in a drone strike, is Junaid Hussain, the head of Islamic State’s media wing who along with his wife former punk Sally Jones, plotted attacks in the UK. Her whereabouts are unknown.” states the post published by SkyNews.
“Reyaad Khan from Cardiff, who also entered in 2013, is also among those found among the registration forms. He was well known for appearing in a highly produced Islamic State propaganda video. He was later killed.”
SkyNews confirmed that many jihadis passed through a series of jihadi “hotspots,” including Yemen, Sudan, Tunisia, Libya, Pakistan and Afghanistan. In any cases, they were able to enter the territory controlled by the IS, join the fights and return home.
The documents are a mine of information for the intelligence, they include many telephone numbers likely belonging to the family members and the jihadis.
The man that disclosed the documents sustains that today the IS has no rules, he doesn’t share the ideology that today is animating the group, so decided to quit the ISIS. He also made another shocking revelation, according to Abu Hamed the ISIS organisation is secretly working with The Kurdish YPG and the Syrian Government to persecute the Syrian opposition.
Also the news portal Zaman Al Wasl (zamanalwsl.net) claimed to have in exclusive 1736 documents revealing ISIS jihadists personal data, it also published it.
“Two thirds of ISIS manpower are from Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, Morocco and Egypt. 25% of ISIS fighters are Saudis, the data disclosed.  While Turkish fighters are taking the lead among ISIS foreign fighters, French fighters come next. Syrians are just 1.7 % of the total number of fighters. The Iraqis make 1.2. ” states the Zaman Al Wasl that analyzed the documents it obtained.

Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Terrorism, ISIS)
