
					Cisco ASA software is affected by a flaw with 10 out of 10 severity rating. Patch it asap					
Cisco addressed a critical security flaw, tracked as CVE-2018-0101, in Adaptive Security Appliance (ASA) software.
The vulnerability could be exploited by a remote and unauthenticated attacker to execute arbitrary code or trigger a denial-of-service (DoS) condition causing the reload of the system.

The vulnerability was discovered by the researcher Cedric Halbronn from NCC Group, he will disclose technical details on February 2 at the Recon Brussels 2018 conference.
The flaw resides in the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) VPN feature implemented by CISCO ASA software.
According to CISCO, it is related to the attempt to double free a memory region when the “webvpn” feature is enabled on a device. An attacker can exploit the vulnerability by sending specially crafted XML packets to a webvpn-configured interface.
“A vulnerability in the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) VPN functionality of the Cisco Adaptive Security Appliance (ASA) Software could allow an unauthenticated, remote attacker to cause a reload of the affected system or to remotely execute code.” reads the security advisory published by CISCO.
“The vulnerability is due to an attempt to double free a region of memory when the webvpn feature is enabled on the Cisco ASA device. An attacker could exploit this vulnerability by sending multiple, crafted XML packets to a webvpn-configured interface on the affected system. An exploit could allow the attacker to execute arbitrary code and obtain full control of the system, or cause a reload of the affected device.”
Below the list of affected CISCO ASA products:
The vulnerability was introduced in Firepower Threat Defense 6.2.2 that implemented the remote access VPN feature since September 2017.
Cisco has addressed the vulnerability by issuing security updates for each of the affected CISCO ASA software that are still supported by the company.
The Cisco Product Security Incident Response Team (PSIRT) is aware of public knowledge of the vulnerability, but Cisco confirmed that it is not aware of any attacks in the wild that are exploiting this vulnerability.
 
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Cisco ASA software, hacking)
