
					Hacker Interviews – 0xOmar (@0XOMAR1337)					
Enjoy the Interview.
Why do you use the nickname of TeaMp0isoN? I know them and you are not a member of the original crew. 
Trick was very good friend of mine invited me to join TeaMp0isoN in 2012 after my interview with Skynews on skype in 2012 then i meet MLT after 2013 I have been underground for many years because Israeli intelligence was trying to track me, but I still was here like other Anons are still wearing their masks. No one will know you. New crew of TeaMp0isoN don’t know me. Members of the old crew like MLT knows me. Good Time, when I have joint the team it was composed of only 4 persons.
Did you participate in in several hacking campaigns, could you tell me more about? 
I have participated in many operations and campaigns during my 17 years career. I taught many Anons hackers and I was member of many teams. I have built 4 teams. I have participated in campaigns, including #OpISIS, #OpIsrael, #Opusa, #OpIran, #OpMyanmar.
Could you tell me which his your technical background and when you started hacking?
My skills are Hardware, Networking, Coding HTML,PHP,ASP,APSX,VB,C++,C#,JS2E5.0,Java SE 8, JavaScript, JavaScript, Perl, SQL, NET, XML, Scala, Python, Matlab, Cobol, haskell Smalltalk, Object-Oriented, Fortran, Scripting, Squeak, Ada, Labview. My first software was made in VB and later in 2004 I developed a lot of software. One of my best software allowed me to get in yahoo conference without been invited. I developed many booters,  DDoS scripts, malware, crypters & Binders etc. I started hacking in 1999.
Which are your motivations?
I fight for peace in the World.
What was your greatest hacking challenge?
Taking Down el Aviv Stock Exchange in 2012, airline and Government web sites.
Below the list:
http://www.zone-h.org/archive/notifier=0xOmar/page=1 …
I infected with malware the Iranian Oil Feld and I took down the site of the Israeli Intelligence Agencies when I was testing my tools (https://vid.me/9sqj )
What are the 4 tools that cannot be missed in the hacker’s arsenal and why? 
Which are the most interesting hacking communities on the web today, why? Most Interesting hacking communities are common in
You can find them on social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter, etc.
Did you participate in hacking attacks against the IS propaganda online? When? How? 
Yes, I Do. I participated in hacking attacks against IS, I attacked the main sites used by the IS with botnet and malware. I hacked into many of their accounts. For me ISIS are not evenMuslims.

Where do you find IS people to hack? How do you choose your targets? 
Social media, mobile apps, Twitter, Facebook, Telegram, Etc & friends been reporting chosen targets.

Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – 0xOmar, hacking)
