
					Minecraft World Map data breach, 71,000 accounts leaked online					
Another data breach affects the gaming industry, this time, 71,000 Minecraft World Map accounts has been leaked online after the ‘hack.’
Some 71,000 user accounts and IP addresses have been leaked from Minecraft fan website Minecraft World Map.
The Minecraft World Map site is very popular withing the Minecraft gaming community, gamers can use the web property to share the worlds they have built.
The popular security expert reported Troy Hunt reported the data dumps that include 71,000 user accounts and IP addresses.

Exposed records include email addresses, IP address data, login credentials for the popular site Minecraft World Map, Troy Hunt clarified that passwords included in the dumps were salted and hashed.

A rapid check allowed the Australian expert to verify that more than half of the compromised accounts were already listed in its online service haveibeenpwned.com that allows users to discover if they have an account that has been compromised in a data breach.
According to the experts, the website Minecraft World Map was breached in January 2016, but the incident was not publicly reported.
“In approximately January 2016, the Minecraft World Map site designed for sharing maps created for the game was hacked and over 71k user accounts were exposed. The data included usernames, email and IP addresses along with salted and hashed passwords.
Compromised data: Email addresses, IP addresses, Passwords, Usernames” Hunt wrote on his website.
Users have to reset their passwords on the Minecraft World Map and on any other website that shares the same login credentials.
This is the last incident occurred in the gaming industry disclosed online, recently security vulnerabilities in the vBulletin platform have exposed more than 27 million accounts, many of them belonging to gamers on mail.ru.
Giving a close look to the compromised mail.ru accounts they belong from CFire, parapa.mail.ru (ParaPa Dance City game), and tanks.mail.ru (Ground War: Tank game).
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –Minecraft World Map, data breach)
