
					ISIS’s Afaaq Electronic Foundation (AEF) spreads awareness on anti-surveillance tools					
The members of the Islamic state have a strong propensity for the technology is a reality, and this is confirmed by the news that I am going to share with you.
The ISIS always instructs its militants to stay safe online avoiding the exposure to intelligence agencies and web surveillance.
A new group operating on the web, called the Afaaq Electronic Foundation, is becoming even more active. It is conducting a massive campaign to train ISIS’s members and sympathizers. The Afaaq Electronic Foundation is running a campaign for “raising security and technical awareness” among IS members.
AEF is born from three previous ISIS-affiliated accounts that were involved in the past for the distribution of security tutorials and guidelines to securely use tools avoiding a “strict monitoring imposed by Western intelligence agencies on Internet users.”
The group promotes itself as an “independent technical foundation focused on raising security and technical awareness among the monotheists,”
The Afaaq Electronic Foundation (AEF) account was created on January 30, is is already followed by more than 2,200 followers on Telegram and Twitter.
The AEF group also refers the Snowden‘s revelation on mass surveillance, jihadists must be trained to avoid the traps and the monitoring operated by the Western Intelligence.
The account is sharing a video on its activities, explaining the training offer and providing instructions on the principal software used to anonymize the online presence. The training explains how to use VPN software, access the Tor network, and browser plugins to hide IP addresses.

The group is also spreading information on how securely use mobile phone for its communication and avoid to be identified by the Intelligence.
In the document published by the account is described a list of browser plugins and software hide user’s identity online.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – ISIS , Afaaq Electronic Foundation)
