
					Kelihos becomes January’s Top 10 ‘Most Wanted’ Malware					
Which are the most active malware in the wild?
According to a research conducted by CheckPoint Security, a malware landscape was characterized by some interesting changed in this first part of 2017.
The Kelihos botnet climbed to the top position, while the Conficker worm dropped to fourth on the chart of malware.
With great surprise, the eight-year-old malware Conficker continues to be one of the most active malware families in 2016.
In June 2016, researchers at CheckPoint described Conficker as “the most prominent family accounting for 14 percent of recognized attacks.” We remind the Conficker resurrection in 2015, when samples of the malware infected police body cameras.
Below the January’s Top 10 ‘Most Wanted’ Malware published by CheckPoint Security
Recently the Kelihos malware was observed spreading via infected thumb drives. The third Most Wanted malware in January was CryptoWall, a well-known ransomware, the remaining positions in the Top 10 list are occupied by other botnets mainly involved in the distribution of the dreaded Locky ransomware.
Checkpoint observed also chenges in the mobile threat landscape, the Android Triada modular backdoor remains the most advanced mobile malware on the Top 3 Most Wanted mobile threats. At the second place, there is the HummingBad, CERT-EU and other sources corroborated Check Point researchers’ findings which recently confirmed a new variant of the ad-fraud-big-money-making, HummingBad, is spreading rapidly on the Android marketplace Google Play.
HummingBad was first seen and released almost a year ago in January/February 2016 by malware authors Yingmob, and racking upwards of approx. $300,000 USD per month for the better half of 2016.  Approximately 10 million Android devices were infected in the firm part of the last year.
Now, dubbed by Check Point, “HummingWhale” is at large with better ad fraud capabilities and sophisticated techniques than HummingBad affecting several applications and has been downloaded several million times from the combined list of applications downloaded.

The third mobile malware threat is Hiddad, a strain of Android malware that repackages legitimate apps and then releases them to a third-party store.
Below the Top 3 ‘Most Wanted’ mobile malware:
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Kelihos , mobile malware)
