
					Hacker Interviews – Toxic Venom from #Z3ro0d3 crew					

You  are a popular hacker that has already participated in several hacking campaigns, could you tell me more. 
I began hacking 5 years ago. I was drawn by the Anonymous collective as I believe in the truth and valid information which should be available to all. I worked solo until I was asked to join P.G.A now known as #Z3ro0d3. This team has a good variety of skills among its members. We have worked on #OpSeaWorld and #OpKillingBay targeting aquariums who facilitate the capture of wild dolphins. At present, we are running the #OpClosedMedia campaing against the censorship of information by the media.
Which are your motivations? 
I see security as a challenge. Most companies do not provide adequate protection for their clients’ data. I like to prove this as fact.
What was your greatest hacking challenge? 
Recently I took down the servers of PoodleCorp () one of the most dreaded hacker group on Internet that targeted the gaming industry) to stop the attack against Blizzard and save their game servers. Skids like these give Anonymous a bad reputation.
Which was your latest hack? Can you describe me it? 
My latest attack is for #OpClosedMedia which is still ongoing. We have shut down several media sites world wide including The Japan Times to protest against the corruption within the media. Journalists use to tell what governments want us to hear.
What are the 4 tools that cannot be missed in the hacker’s arsenal and why?
Which are the most interesting hacking communities on the web today, why?
There are a lot of good communities on the web. I personally prefer Hackforums. 
Did you participate in hacking attacks against the IS propaganda online? When? How? I haven’t up to now. I plan
I haven’t up to now. I plan to spend some time working with #OpISIS. Terrorism is threatening the world and we can do a lot to save it. If I can help to stop that in any way, I will.
We often hear about cyber weapons and cyber attacks against critical infrastructure. Do you believe it is real the risk of a major and lethal cyber attack against a critical infrastructure?
I think so, we all know security is just an illusion
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  Hacking, Toxic Venom)
