
					UPDATE Charlie Hebdo TANGO DOWN – Anonymous promises to avenge the massacre					
A few hours ago the two brothers believed to be members of the terrorist commando that has attacked on Wednesday the offices of French satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo were killed.
The manhunt is over with another massacre, Agence France Presse reported the tragic events after that the nation is fallen into an absurd atmosphere of terror for the last couple of days.
Surely what happened will have serious repercussions in the coming days also in the cyberspace. Groups of criminals will try to benefit from the news of the massacre at Charlie Hebdo to compromise PCs of millions of users seeking information about events, exactly as happened in the recent case of the AirAsia Flight QZ8501. Cyber terrorists will continue their propaganda against the Western enemies and Intelligence agencies will intensify their activities searching for other information on the ramification of the alleged terrorist cells which are planning further attacks against Western entities.
Also the hacktivists group of Anonymous Cry out for vengeance for the assault on the Charlie Hebdo, convinced that what happened is not tolerable and violates the principles for which the group of beats.
The Anonymous collective has announced a series of attack against the jihadist websites which shared the vision on the terrorists behind the attack.
It’s not first time that Anonymous targets jihadist online communities, in June the group run a campaign dubbed Operation NO2ISIS against some states it accuses of supporting the Islamic terror group ISIS.
FLASH Charlie Hebdo suspects killed: source
— Agence France-Presse (@AFP) 9 Gennaio 2015

The Belgian wing of Anonymous has published a video on the Internet in which is announcing its revenge, the collective promises to raze social networks of accounts promoting violent jihad.
Anonymous considers the supporters of a violent jihad as “enemies of freedom of expression,” so it announced the Op Charlie Hebdo.

Anonymous ha also posted the manifest of the Op Charlie Hebdo on Pastebin, below the translation of an excerpt from the message:
“It is our responsibility to react … Attacking freedom of speech is a direct hit to democracy. Expect a massive reaction from us, because this freedom is what we’ve been always fighting for.”
Anonymous is managing a specific Twitter profile that seems to be dedicated to the Op Charlie Hebdo campaign, the hacktivists are used it for a call to arms against the jihadists.

Anonymous is urging supporters to “find terrorists twitter profiles [and] report them.”
In time I’m writing there isn’t news of attacks on jihadist websites, Anonymous is menacing “al-Qaeda, the Islamic State and other terrorists.”
This is a new dark page in the history of humanity.
UPDATE Jan. 11, 2015
The Following Jihad Sites have been targeted by Anonymous
WE ARE ANONYMOUS. WE DON’T FORGIVE. WE DON’T FORGET.
The first website that was brought down is Ansar-alhaqq.net, it is considered as a French jihadist website. Ansar-alhaqq.net was down for more than an hour, but now it is online again.

 
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  Anonymous, Op Charlie Hebdo)
