
					Anonymous promises war on Trump, and only line experts say how to hack his mobile					
Anonymous declared war to US President-elect Donald Trump, recently the collective threatened to expose his “financial and personal ties with Russian mobsters.”
The group is claiming to have inside information on some of Trump’s dirty affairs with Russians, but at the time I was writing nothing was disclosed. Trump is sure that someone is orchestrating a misinformation campaign against his administration, he referred the “Fake news” reported in the document written by the British spy Christopher Steele.

“Fake news” refers to a report written by British spy Christopher Steele, which alleges that Trump paid prostitutes to urinate on his hotel bed in Moscow as a “dirty protest” against Barack Obama – who had previously stayed in the same hotel suite.” reported The Mirror.
Donald Trump published a direct message to outgoing CIA chief John Brennan saying, “Was this the leaker of fake news?”
Now Anonymous has published a simple guide on how to hack Donald Trump’s phone that according to the media is the same smartphone he owned before being elected.

President trump could be easily hacked by tricking him into clicking on a malicious link, and this is possible with a social engineering attack or
“A Galaxy S3 does not meet the security requirements of a teenager, let alone the purported leader of the free world.” states the analysis on the President Trump’s Insecure Android.
“Without exaggerating, hacking a Galaxy S3 or S4 is the sort of project I would assign as homework for my advanced undergraduate classes.”
The analysis suggests it could be very easy by downloading a publicly available exploit depending on the specific OS version running on the target. The analysis cites the Stagefright exploit as a possible weapon against the President’s smartphone.
“Alternatively, one could advertise malware on Brietbart and just wait for Trump to visit,” the hacktivists added.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Anonymous, Trump)
