
					Russia hacks US systems ‘all the time’ said Director of National Intelligence					
The recent string of attacks against people and systems involved in the 2016 Presidential election is alarming the US intelligence.
After the attacks against the Democratic National Committee, security firms and government experts collected evidence that suggests the involvement of the Russian Government.
Security experts at threat intelligence firm ThreatConnect have conducted an analysis on the IP addresses listed in the flash alert issued in August by the FBI that warned about two cyber attacks against the election systems in two U.S. states. The TTPs adopted by attackers suggest the involvement of Russian hackers

The Director of National Intelligence James Clapper on Wednesday declared Russian hackers hack US computer networks “all the time.” Clappers pointed out that Russian hackers infiltrated any kind of network belonging to private firms and government agencies.
“The Russians hack our systems all the time, not just government but also corporate” the Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said at a Washington security summit, though he did accused the not directly address whether Moscow was behind the DNC hack.
Russians aren’t the unique threat for US infrastructure and systems, China and “non-state” actors constantly try to violate them to swipe data.
The US intelligence fears that the cyber attacks could interfere with the outcome of the US Presidential elections.
Clapper said both campaigns’ transition teams had met with the current administration in the White House.
“I know a lot of people have been feeling uncertainty about what will happen,” said Clapper while also seeking to reassure the public the event will be not affected by the attacks.
“I am here with a message: It will be OK,” he added, inviting observers to avoid “catastrophizing” the upcoming changeover. 
At the same time, security experts worry more cyber attacks in election systems and against individuals involved in both campaigns of Trump and Clinton.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – 2016 Presidential election, Russia)
