
					A new Facebook security feature reveals fraudulent Facebook-like mails					
Facebook has rolled out a new security feature to protect users from identity theft, the tech giant is taking note of every email it has “recently” sent to its users.
The full list of email sent by Facebook is available under the Settings menu on the social network platform.
Facebook users that will receive a message allegedly sent by the social network giant can check its authenticity by viewing the new “See recent emails from Facebook” section at the bottom of the Security and Login page.

If the message is not included in the list it is fraudulent and must be discarded.
“Facebookmail.com is a common domain that Facebook uses to send notifications when we detect an attempt to log in to your account or change a password. If you’re unsure if an email you received was from Facebook, you can check its legitimacy by visiting facebook.com/settings to view a list of security-related emails that have been recently sent.” states the announcement published by Facebook. 
Even if threat actors are able to disguise emails, to make them look like official messages sent by Facebook, the new Facebook security feature will help users to identify phishing attacks.
Crooks use phishing attacks to obtain victim’s credentials, access their profile, and perform a wide range of fraudulent activities.
Compromised accounts could be used to send out phishing messages or to spread malware.
Users that will discover email scam pretending to be sent from the Facebook platform can report it to phish@facebook.com.
If your account has been compromised due to a phishing attempt, visit facebook.com/hacked.
“If you’ve checked this tool and determined that an email you received is fake, we encourage you to report it to phish@facebook.com, and if you believe your account has been compromised due to a phishing attempt, you may attempt to regain access to your account at: facebook.com/hacked. ” concludes Facebook.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Facebook security feature, phishing)
