
					Young hacker Luca Todesco announced the iPhone 7 jailbreak					
Only a few hours, this is the time spent by the popular hacker Luca Todesco (aka @qwertyoruiopz) to jailbreak the new and secure iPhone 7. The iPhone 7 was launched by Apple a few days ago and of course, hackers worldwide started their race to jailbreak the new device.
The 19-year-old hacker Luca Todesco shared via Twitter an image of his jailbroken iPhone 7, not so bad! The expert exploited a series of bugs to hack the device in just 24 hours and demonstrating that also the iPhone 7 is “not 100 percent secure-like nothing else is“

The image shows an iPhone 7 running both iOS 10.0.1 as well as the Cydia repository, used by owners of jailbroken device to install apps and other software that Apple does not officially support.
 

Cydia is an application very popular within the community of iOS Apple users, it is the jailbreaker’s App Store alternative for iOS. The unofficial store contains thousands of apps, themes, and many other downloads. Using Cydia iOs users can find and install applications on their jailbroken iOS Apple devices, the majority of the software in the store are available for free.
At the time I was writing it is not clear if Todesco will release the iPhone 7 jailbreak to the public, he hasn’t provided much information about the hack, for example he doesn’t explain if the exploit is an untethered jailbreak.
An untethered jailbreak is a procedure that doesn’t require the iPhone any reboot every time it connects to an external device capable of executing commands on the device.
The untethered jailbreak is more complicated, it makes the jailbroken device totally independent of the computer and allows users turning off and on the device without problems.
The untethered jailbreak totally resides on the device.

The hacking community is celebrating the news, although Todesco has not released the exploit, he showed that it is possible to hack the iPhone 7.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – iPhone 7, hacking)
