
					GOP sent threatening emails to Sony Pictures Employees					
The massive cybar attack that compromised the corporate computer network at Sony Pictures Entertainment is having a serious impact on the organization and its employees. The GOP crew, aka the Guardians of Peace, that hacked Sony Picture accessed a huge quantity of company data, including staff’s PII, internal phone numbers, blueprints and much more. This data can fuel further attacks,  with unpredictable consequences.
As part of the incident response, the company shut down the internal network to sanitize the infected machine and requested the employee to avoid accessing corporate email and VPN.
The massive data breach at Sony Picture has also caused the exposure of more sensitive documents, in fact, the hacker leaked the US Social Security numbers of more than 47,000 celebrities, freelancers, and current and former Sony employees.

A week after the major attack, the hackers leaked online the five newest films distributed by Sony Pictures,  Annie, Still Alice, Fury, Still Alice, Mr. Turner and To Write Love on Her Arms during Black Friday.
Several media agencies in these hours are spreading the news that Sony Pictures employees received e-mails from hackers threatening to harm them and their family members. The circumstance is very scary and has no precedents.
Who is threatening the employees at Sony Pictures Entertainment and why?
According to the media agencies, employees at Sony Pictures Entertainment received threatening emails from the GOP team. The emails are written in English and includes the following text:
“Please sign your name to object the false (sic) of the company at the email address below, if you don’t want to suffer damage. If you don’t, not only you but your family will be in danger.”
The employees at the Sony Picture were requested to turn off their cell phones after receiving this email, meantime the company is supporting law enforcement in the investigation.
It’s difficult in this phase discover the real identity of the GOP team despite many security experts speculated on the possible involvement of the North Korea. The retaliation is the payback for upcoming comedy film, “The Interview,” which narrates the story of two journalists who are recruited by the CIA to assassinate North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.
At the moment, the unique certainly is related to the nature of the malware used in the attack, as reported by experts at TrendMicro the GOP used a Wiper malware to compromise the corporate network.
“I am the head of GOP who made you worry. 
Removing Sony Pictures on earth is a very tiny work for our group which is a worldwide organization. And what we have done so far is only a small part of our further plan. It’s your false if you if you think this crisis will be over after some time. All hope will leave you and Sony Pictures will collapse. This situation is only due to Sony Pictures. Sony Pictures is responsible for whatever the result is. Sony Pictues clings to what is good to nobody from the beginning. It’s silly to expect in Sony Pictures to take off us. Sony Pictures makes only useless efforts. One beside you can be our member. 
Many things beyond imagination will happen at many places of the world. Our agents find themselves act in necessary places. Please sign your name to object the false of the company at the email address below if you don’t want to suffer damage. If you don’t, not only you but your family will be in danger.
Nobody can prevent us, but the only way is to follow our demand. If you want to prevent us, make your company behave wisely.”  states the email sent by hackers to the Sony Pictures employee.
Stay tuned.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  Sony Pictures, GOP)
