
					NCA, British National Crime Agency arrested a suspected Pentagon Hacker					
British law enforcement has identified and arrested a 23-year-old man over a hacking attack on the US Department of Defense on June 15, 2014. The law enforcement arrested the man on March 4, while the NCA is still operating to capture other hackers across the country.
According to the National Crime Agency (NCA), the hacking crew compromised the network of the Pentagon and obtained email addresses and phone numbers of about 800 people.

Despite the NCA confirmed that no sensitive data was exposed in the data breach, the hackers also obtained information related to 34,400 devices used by the department to communicate with employees via email or phone around the world, although the NCA said no sensitive data was obtained.
The young man from near Birmingham seems has posted online a message of condemnation for the attacks mounted by the group Lizard Squad against Microsoft and Sony and confirmed the intent of an attack against the US DoD systems. According to the NCA, the hackers posted this confusing message on an online message board:
“We smite the Lizards, LizardSquad your time is near. We’re in your bases, we control your satellites. The missiles shall rein upon thy who claim alliance, watch your heads, T-47:59:59 until lift off. We’re one, we’re many, we lurk in the dark,we’re everywhere and anywhere. Live Free Die Hard!” he said, adding: “Department of Defense has no Defenses.”
The US Government will offer all the necessary support to the investigation conducted by the British authorities.
“underscores DCIS commitment and the joint ongoing efforts among international law enforcement to stop cyber criminals in their tracks.”  said Jeffrey Thorpe, member of the Pentagon’s criminal investigative service (DCIS)
“DCIS special agents will use every tool at their disposal to pursue and bring to justice those that attack the Department of Defense,” 
Among the people arrested during there is a 16-year-old boy from Leeds, accused of carrying out hundreds of cyber-attacks on British businesses.
“Behind this week’s activity is the message that all of us, as individuals, businesses or law enforcement agencies, have a role to plan in making the UK a safe place to enjoy the huge opportunities provided by the internet.” said Andy Archibald, Deputy Director of the NCA’s National Cyber Crime Unit.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  cybercrime, NSA )
