
					Trezor users targeted by phishing attacks, experts blame DNS Poisoning or BGP Hijacking					

The attack appears more complex respect a simple phishing campaign, hackers may have powered a DNS poisoning attack or a BGP hijacking to redirect users to a rogue phishing site that mimic the legitimate one.
 “DNS poisoning or BGP hijacking point toward DNS poisoning or BGP hijacking” explains the Trezor team.
Hackers redirected legitimate traffic for the official wallet.trezor.io domain to a rogue copy of the website.
The team launched an investigation to shed the light on the attack. The experts spotted the incident after users reported HTTPS certificate error while landing on web wallet portal.
The error alerted the users, this kind of error suggests users are visiting a rogue website that attempts to pose as a legitimate one.
The users quickly reported the anomaly to the team of maintainers that confirmed the phishing attack and published a security advisory to warn users about the phishing attacks.
“Late night yesterday, our Support Team started receiving inquiries about an invalid SSL certificate, which serves as a stamp of authenticity of our web services. This can happen for a few reasons, some of which are less serious. Unfortunately, after investigating these reports closer, we found out that the invalid certificate warning appeared because of phishing attempts against Trezor users.” reads the security advisory.
“The fake Trezor Wallet website was served to some users who attempted to access wallet.trezor.io — the legitimate address. We do not yet know which attack vector was used, but the signs point toward DNS poisoning or BGP hijacking.”
The company also reported two other issues for the bogus website:

 
The company took down the malicious website with the support of the hosting provider.

At the time it is not clear if the attackers stole user funds.
Let’s close with suggestions provided by the company:
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – phishing, phishing)
