
					Anonymous hacked Freedom Hosting II, a fifth of the Dark Web is down					
The collective Anonymous is back, this time the hacker groups breached Freedom Hosting II, a popular Dark Web hosting provider.
After the closure of the original Freedom Hosting, Freedom Hosting II (FHII) become one of the largest onion web hosting providers, it is offering free space to any user who signs up for an account.
Anonymous targeted the popular Tor hosting provider because it was providing its services to a large number of websites sharing child pornography image.
The cyber attack was first spotted by Sarah Jamie Lewis, a privacy researcher at mascherari.press, who noticed the mass defacement during a regular scan of the Tor network.

Since OnionScan started in April, Sarah Jamie Lewis and her team have observed FHII hosting between 1500 and 2000 services or about 15-20% of the total number of active sites in our scanning lists (data related to the last report published in October).
Back to the present, 10,613 .onion sites have taken down as a result of the Freedom Hosting II hack, all sites have been defaced with the following image. As you can see, the Anonymous message also includes a list of hacked websites.
Source Bleepingcomputer.com
Below the message published by Anonymous
“Hello Freedom Hosting II, you have been hacked
We are disappointed… This is an excerpt from your front page ‘We have a zero tolerance policy to child pornography.’ – but what we found while searching through your server is more than 50% child porn…
Moreover you host many scam sites, some of which are evidently run by yourself to cover hosting expenses.
All your files have been copied and your database has been dumped. (74GB of files and 2.3GB of database)
Up to January 31st you were hosting 10613 sites. Private keys are included in the dump. Show full list
We are Anonymous. We do not forgive. We do not forget. You should have expected us.
Thanks for your patience, you don’t have to buy data  we made a torrent of the database dump download here
Here another torrernt with all system files (excluding user data) download
You may still donate BTC to 14iCDyeCSp12AmhVfJGxtrzXDabFop4QtU and support us.
If you need to get in contact with us, our mail is fhosting@sigaint.org
We repeatedly get asked how we got into the system. It was surprisingly easy. Here is how we did it: HOW TO HACK FH2“
Further analysis revealed that the attackers received at least two payments in their Bitcoin wallet, but they opted to publicly leak the data dump via torrent files.
Watch out, the 2.3 GB dump may contain disturbing images, don’t download the archive if you don’t need it. Anonymous claims to have downloaded 74GB of files.
Joseph cox from Motherboard interviewed one of the Anonymous hackers involved in the attack who explained this was his first hack ever, and he did not plan to take down all websites hosted on Freedom Hosting II.
“On Saturday, the hacker claiming responsibility told me in more detail how and why they took down the service.” wrote Cox.
“This is in fact my first hack ever,” they said in an email sent from the same address posted to the hacked Freedom Hosting II sites. “I just had the right idea.”
The hacker, who first compromised the service on January 30, told Vice that they found ten child pornography sites that had uploaded so much content that it accounted for nearly half of the total Freedom Hosting II files.
The security expert Chris Monteiro who analyzed some of the dumped data confirmed that archive includes .onion URLs hosting botnets, fraud sites, fetish websites hacked data, and of course child abuse websites.
The archive is full of private keys related to the dark web sites that could be used to impersonate them.

 



Below the step-by-step procedure followed by Anonymous to hack Freedom Hosting II.
Stay Tuned.


Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Freedom Hosting II, Anonymous)
