
					Hacker Interviews – Paladin					

Did you participate in several hacking campaigns? could you tell me more about you?
I have participated in many operations and campaigns over my 9 years in this community, I started at basic coding and went further to take advantage of p2p game flaws. I am known by other identities and i have a history with notorious groups.
Could you tell me which his your technical background and when you started hacking? Which are your motivations?
I started 9 years ago, I started little with hex and debugging and later found my self in anonymous operations in 2012, My motivation is the future.
What was your greatest hacking challenge? Which was your latest hack? Can you describe me it?
My latest project has not been publicly released, Latest hack was gaining access to official Taliban servers and humiliating them by defacing and cleaning out the database with years of Taliban articles and media.
What are the 4 tools that cannot be missed in the hacker’s arsenal and why?
I use many tools for debugging and composing so it’s not an easy thing to come up with 4.
I would have to say firebug, macro and a few others i don’t really want to mention. I would have to say firebug, macro and a few others i don’t really want to mention.
I don’t want to mention black hat material such as SQL ripping and resource flaw sniffers.
Which are the most interesting hacking communities on the web today, why?
I have been in a few hacking communities and they are all totally different it’s crazy. This community is far by the superior one.
Did you participate in hacking attacks against the IS propaganda online? When? How?
I am currently attacking a dark web ISIS propaganda network that is popular among isis supporters, More can be seen on my page.
Where do you find IS people to hack? How do you choose your targets?
Finding targets is not easy, I try to use Arabic search engines etc, Many groups have target lists that assist me.
We often hear about cyber weapons and cyber attacks against critical infrastructure. Do you believe it is real the risk of a major and lethal cyber attack against a critical infrastructure?
I believe it is a risk, It’s not hard to even take down the biggest website for around 300-500$ or other cheaper methods.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Paladin, Hacking)
