
					Anonymous announced #OpParis against the ISIS in response to the Paris attacks					
Last Friday was a sad day for the humanity, 129 innocent people were killed in the Paris attacks managed by members of the ISIS. Every event has consequences in the cyber space and vice-versa, the popular collective has launched a new operation against the ISIS. After the precedent #OpISIS, the popular collective Anonymous has now launched the #OpParis.

Anonymous released a video on the Internet announcing that his members will catch ISIS members online. In the video published by Anonymous, an avatar of Anonymous with a strong French accent declared war to the terrorists.
The video officially announces the opening of the #OpParis that aims to discover the identities of the terrorists and any members that supported individuals involved in the Paris attacks.

Below a translation of the message published on the Internet.
 “Greetings to you, citizens of the world. We are Anonymous. First of all we want to express our sorrow and sympathy for the victims, the injured and their families. To defend our values and our freedom are on the trail of belonging to terrorist groups responsible for the attacks, we will not stop, we will not forget, and we will do everything necessary to put an end to their actions. During the attacks in Charlie Hebdo, had already declared our determination to neutralize anyone to attack our freedoms. Now we will do the same. Expect our total mobilization. Violence does not weaken, but will give us the strength to unite and fight together tyranny and obscurantism. We are Anonymous. We are Legion. We do not forget. We do not forgive. Expect us “
The official account of the #OpParis is @opparisofficial, the members of Anonymous are announcing operation also in the Deep Web (i.e. Monitoring of the profiles used on Galaxy2).
Anonymous is inviting its members to don’t launch DDoS attacks against ISIS websites, instead it suggest hacking them to steal data and leak them.
‘Paris attacks, #Anonymous brings to life #OpParis -“don’t do DDoS(Distributed Denial of Service)…’ https://t.co/27H6uXwDNg
— X (@birdofburden) 15 Novembre 2015

Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – ISIS, Paris attacks, #OpParis)
