
					Don’t install Fortnite Android APK because it could infect your mobile device					
No doubt, Fortnite is currently the most popular game, it is a co-op sandbox survival game developed by Epic Games and People Can Fly.
The game was released as a paid-for early access title for Microsoft Windows, macOS, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on July 25, 2017, with a full free-to-play releases in 2018.
The Fortnite game has now more than 125 million active users.
The great success obtained by the Fortnite attracted cyber criminals that are attempting to exploit its popularity to target the fans.
Unfortunately for Android users, Fortnite for Android devices is not available yet, it is currently under development while the iOS version was released in March by Epic Games.

The company announced that the Battle Royale game is planned to be released for Android devices this summer.
In the recent weeks, crooks attempted to take advantage of Android users’ interest in an alleged version for their devices of the popular game.
Surfing online it is quite easy to find blog posts and video tutorial with instructions to install fake Fortnite Android App.
I spent an entire week to explain to my son and his friends the risks of installing APK from untrusted sources, believe me … it was the unique real battle royal of this story 
Just searching for ‘Fortnite Android App’ on YouTube you will get an impressive number of videos on “How to install Fortnite on Android,” many of these videos were viewed millions of times also include links to actual Fortnite APK files.

A growing number of users is searching for Fortnite Android as reported by Google Trends:
  trends.embed.renderExploreWidget("TIMESERIES", {"comparisonItem":[{"keyword":"fortnite android","geo":"","time":"2018-01-01 2018-06-18"}],"category":0,"property":""}, {"exploreQuery":"date=2018-01-01%202018-06-18&amp;q=fortnite%20android","guestPath":"https://trends.google.it:443/trends/embed/"}); 
Scammers are exploiting this interest to trick Android fans into downloading tainted version of the game that can compromise Android devices.
Some video tutorials appeared online recommend Android users to “install a few other apps” to unlock the Android Fortnite game. These apps could hide any kind of code, from cryptocurrency miners to apps used to generate revenue for their developers.

An impressive number of links purport to be official Fortnite app downloads, are used by crooks to deliver malicious applications.
If you are a fan of the Fornite game you have to wait until next summer for the official Android version, meantime don’t install alleged beta versions of the popular game from third-party stores.

Even if you see the Fortnite Android version in the official Google Play store, do not download it, unfortunately, scammers are able to deploy fake apps also on the official store.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Fortnite Android, malware)
