
					The Detox Ransome hacker stole Democratic National Committee DB in 2015					
According to The Epoch Times, the notorious hacker Detox Ransome stole Democrat Databases in 2015. In September 2015, the hacker breached a service linked to the operations of the Democratic National Committee accessing the internal database.
Detox Ransome has stolen usernames, passwords, and emails belonging people involved in the organizations connected to the Democratic National Committee (DNC).
The cyber security expert Edward Alexander provided to The Epoch Times evidence of the attack found on the dark web.
“I know he was sitting on those databases, I know he had them, and after he and I parted ways I’m sure he tried to monetize them somehow,” Alexander said.
Detox Ransome was in the headlines in August 2015 when he hacked a server of the BitDefender security firm that hosted the cloud-based management dashboards for its small and medium-sized business clients. The hackers leaked a list of credentials for more than 250 BitDefender accounts, as reported by the HackerFilm.
He also threatened to leak more customer data unless the company paid $15,000.
Alexander was introduced to Detox Ransome by another notorious black hat hacker, Detox Ransome told him over an online chat that he had hacked a website containing data belonging “Obama and Hilary campaign people,” the archive is a trove composed of “millions of emails.”
Detox Ransome hacked the Rogue Global Solutions website that was operated by campaign staff of President Barack Obama “with the desire to bring the technical innovations of the campaign to other political, governmental, and international organizations.”
Democratic National Committee (DNC) Chair, Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Democrat of Florida, speaks at the DNC’s Leadership Forum Issues Conference in Washington, DC, on September 19, 2014. AFP PHOTO/Mandel NGAN (Photo credit should read MANDEL NGAN/AFP/Getty Images) (Source The Observer)
Alexander and his team tried to contact the Rogue Global Solutions but were no more operative despite the server containing the data was still online and open to hackers.
“We tried to alert Rogue Solutions, but that’s when we found out they were no longer around and had folded up shop,” Alexander said.
It seems that the notorious hacker Detox Ransome exploited the Heartbleed flaw to compromise the server. He was scanning the web searching for vulnerable websites when discovered the Rogue Solution server.
The hacker used the Heartbleed vulnerability scanner, a free tool available online.
“The system contained more than 1GB of data in its databases that contained login credentials for key members of organizations and services connected to the DNC.” reported The Epoch Times. 
“When Detox Ransome was exfiltrating data from the networks of Rogue Global Solutions, he used a screenshare program to show Alexander what he had found. Alexander recorded the session for evidence and has provided Epoch Times with the video.”
The story, once again demonstrates the importance of a proper security posture, it is absurd to leave online sensitive data that are stored on a server that owners don’t update.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Democratic National Committee, Detox Ransome)
