
					Turkish Crime Family group will remotely wipe hundreds of millions of iPhones unless Apple pays ransom					
Members of the group which calls itself Turkish Crime Family claim that they’ve been involved in selling databases of stolen credentials for the past few years.
“The group said via email that it has had a database of about 519 million iCloud credentials for some time, but did not attempt to sell it until now. The interest for such accounts on the black market has been low due to security measures Apple has put in place in recent years, it said.” reported ComputerWorld.
The members of the group are originally from Istanbul, but now seem to be located in Green Lanes, an area in North London.

The situation is not so critical, changing the iCloud passwords will make ineffective the operation of the crooks. As usual, let me suggest also to enable two-factor authentication.
Initially, the Turkish Crime Family crew asked Apple a $75,000 ransom in Bitcoin or Ethereum cryptocurrency. Now the group has increased its request raising the ransom value to $150,000, and the group intends to increase it further if Apple doesn’t pay in three days.
According to Motherboard, Apple will not pay the ransom, the hackers provided screenshots of alleged emails between its members and the Apple’s security team. Someone also published a video on YouTube showing how to use leaked credentials to access iCloud accounts, but the group claims that the person who shared the video is not a member of their group.
“We firstly kindly request you to remove the video that you have uploaded on your YouTube channel as it’s seeking unwanted attention, second of all we would like you to know that we do not reward cyber criminals for breaking the law,” reads a message allegedly sent by a member of Apple’s security team reads. (Motherboard only saw a screenshot of this message and not the original). The alleged Apple team member then says archived communications with the hacker will be sent to the authorities.” 
Apple did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
“We are doing this because we can and mainly to spread awareness for Karim Baratov and Kerem Albayrak, which both are being detained for the Yahoo hack and one of them is most probably facing heavy sentencing in America,” a representative for the group said via email. “Kerem Albayrak on the other hand is being accused of listing the database for sale online.”
At this point we have to wait April 7, this is the date when the hackers plan to launch the mass attack on iCloud accounts and wipe their contents.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – iCloud credentials, Turkish Crime Family)
