
					Watch out! This iPhone-freezing video will CRASH any iPhone!					
A new bug  in iPhone is threatening Apple users, most of the Apple devices crashes when the owner plays a video. An iPhone-freezing video is circulating online, when users play it in the Safari browser the iPhones slow down until they stop working altogether.
The iPhone-freezing video was first discovered by EverythingApplePro, it is a short .mp4 clip of someone standing by a bed with the words “Honey” written across the screen.
“After playing the clip, affected iPhones will remain usable for a couple of minutes before growing more sluggish and eventually crashing altogether. ” reads a post published by The Telegraph.

At the time I was writing there is no information regarding the nature of the bug. Users observed that the iPhone crashes even if only a part of the iPhone-freezing video is played.
The clip causes the crash of all the versions of iOS back to iOS 5. The experts noticed a different behavior only on iOS 10.2 beta 3, with this specific version the vision of the video causes the phone to display the spinning wheel that indicates powering off.
In the past, other similar bugs were able to cause the crash/restart of the Apple devices, there was a problem receiving a certain text message, changing the iphone settings, or simply clicking on the link crashsafari.com on the iPhone, iPad or even Macs.
Below the PoC video for the iPhone-freezing video:

If you watch the video by mistake and your iPhone freezes up, you can solve the problem with a hard reboot.
“To do this on any iPhone model other than the iPhone 7, press and hold the home and power buttons at the same time for at least 10 seconds until the Apple logo appears. On an iPhone 7 you can hard reset by holding the power and volume decrease buttons.” continues The Telegraph.
“After the Apple logo appears, release the buttons and your iPhone should restart normally.”
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – iPhone-freezing video, hacking)
