
					Who are best European Security Blogs? Why they Excluded Security Affairs?					
http://blogs.infosecurityeurope.com/europes-most-popular-security-blogs-vote-now/
You know my daily effort spent in cyber security, I have thousand people that everyday reads my posts and share them, but evidently it is not enough because I’m out of their business.
So I decided to analyze the popularity level of the candidates and compare it with Security Affairs, that I remind you is a personal blog and not a business blog. For simplicity, I’ll analyze the Alexa Rating and the number of Twitter followers.
Considering that Security Affairs is today Ranked 85,593 and that I have 9040 Followers, probably I can compete with companies despite I’m a single and passionate expert, but that the organization obviously does not know it!
At this point, let me give a look to my potential category, “The Best Personal Security Blog“, it’s clear that Security Affairs could be among the best blogs but the Infosecurity Europe doesn’t know it!
I don’t want to bore you, but the problem is why the organization at Infosecurity Europe has totally ignored me?
“The organization says that I never sent my application, this is true because I never heard of it. I have never been contacted by them. The organization declines any responsibility, the blog owners & readers of the blogs were the ones who selected the blogs. So excuse me, anyway I find very serious that a blog like Security Affairs was not mentioned neither that more than 9000 followers haven’t had news about the initiative.”
Probably I’m doing something wrong.
I’m very disappointed because I manage Security Affairs for passion and the numbers demonstrate that despite I’m alone it has the performance, in term of audience, of a Corporate Blog that is managed by a team of experts. I consider similar charts very offensive for those who like cyber security.
Good vote!
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Infosecurity Europe, Best European Blog)
