
					InterContinental Hotels Group, the international hotel chain confirmed a second credit card breach					
The multinational hotel chain owns prestigious brands like Holiday Inn and Crowne Plaza.
This is the second time that the InterContinental Hotels Group suffers a credit card breach, early this year the hotel chain informed its customers that payment cards used between August and December 2016, at restaurants and bars of the 12 US hotels were affected by the data breach. The affected properties include the InterContinental San Francisco and Holiday Inn Resort – Aruba, the InterContinental Chicago Magnificent Mile.

On Friday the company published on its website a credit card breach notification informing it customers that a second breach occurred at select hotels between Sept. 29 and Dec. 29 last year.
“Many IHG-branded locations are independently owned and operated franchises, and certain of these franchisee operated locations in the Americas were made aware by payment card networks of patterns of unauthorized charges occurring on payment cards after they were legitimately used at their locations.  To ensure an efficient and effective response, IHG hired a leading cyber security firm on behalf of franchisees to coordinate an examination of the payment card processing systems of franchise hotel locations in the Americas region.” reads the announcement published by the InterContinental Hotels Group.
“The investigation identified signs of the operation of malware designed to access payment card data from cards used onsite at front desks at certain IHG-branded franchise hotel locations between September 29, 2016 and December 29, 2016.  Although there is no evidence of unauthorized access to payment card data after December 29, 2016, confirmation that the malware was eradicated did not occur until the properties were investigated in February and March 2017. “
The company highlighted that there’s no evidence payment card data was accessed after that some payment systems have been compromised with a malware.
The malware that infected the systems at the InterContinental Hotels Group was able to siphon credit card data from track in the magnetic strip (i.e. customers’ card number, expiration date, and internal verification code).
“The malware searched for track data (which sometimes has cardholder name in addition to card number, expiration date, and internal verification code) read from the magnetic stripe of a payment card as it was being routed through the affected hotel server. There is no indication that other guest information was affected. ” continues the credit card breach notification.
It is still unclear the number of properties affected by the second breach, customers can use a free web tool published by the company to search for potentially affected hotels in select states (US and Puerto Rico) and cities.
Data managed by the online tools suggests that more than a thousand hotels were affected by the incident.
The company confirmed that the investigation is still and it will update periodically data provided by the tool according to its findings.
The bad news is that several properties don’t participate in the investigation.
In response to the incidents, the company is improving security of its payment systems in order to repel malware-based attacks.
The hotels affected by this second breach had not yet implemented the announced improvement.
“Before this incident began, many IHG-branded franchise hotel locations had implemented IHG’s Secure Payment Solution (SPS), a point-to-point encryption payment acceptance solution.  Properties that had implemented SPS before September 29, 2016 were not affected.  Many more properties implemented SPS after September 29, 2016, and the implementation of SPS ended the ability of the malware to find payment card data and, therefore, cards used at these locations after SPS implementation were not affected. ” reads the announcement.
 
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – InterContinental Hotels, card breach)
