
					All Smartwatches on the market are vulnerable to attacks					
Today we talk about a great passion of mine, watches. Let me tell you that I’m not attracted by Smartwatches, I consider watches and their gears a work of art like a painting.
Having said that, today I’ll present you the disconcerting results of a study conducted by the HP’s Fortify firm on the security of Smartwatches.
According to experts at HP, almost every Smartwatch available on the market is vulnerable to cyber attack , including the popular Apple Watch and Samsung Gear.
The HP Fortify tested security features implemented by 10 of the top smartwatches currently on the market. HP has verified the presence of vulnerabilities listed on the OWASP Internet of Things Top 10, 100 percent of wearable devices contained at least one security issue that open them to cyber attacks.
The most common security issues reported by HP include:
The Study highlights the need of a new approach in the design of smart devices that consider security requirements as crucial requirements to implement. Manufacturers have to pay closer attention to the customers’ security to the risks related to cyber attacks.
“Despite their current limited footprint, smartwatches will likely replace smartphones as a convenient way to control communication and manage daily tasks. As watches become a common part of our daily workflow, we will likely use them for increasingly sensitive tasks like gaining access to our front door at home, entering and turning on our cars, and paying for purchases both in person and online.” concludes the study published by HP. “Whether using a health application, financial, or even gaming application, HP was able to intercept and detect the sensitive data being routed to multiple locations on the Internet.”
HP confirmed that it would not disclose the names of smartphone manufacturers of the devices it evaluated, but they are working with vendors to “build security into their products before they put them out to market.”
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Wearable devices, hacking)
