
					What Is Metadata Retention, And How Do You Maintain Your Privacy?					
As Australia’s newly approved Data Retention law comes into effect, internet users across the country are frantically searching for a way to dodge government surveillance and ISP tracking. But how does the law actually affect the average Australian internet user? What is metadata anyway? And what can you do to protect your metadata?
Read on to get the answers to some of the most frequently asked questions following Australia’s Data Retention Law.
What Metadata Is?
In layman terms, Metadata is data about data. To put it more eloquently, Metadata describes a set of data, explaining how and when it was collected and by whom. It summarizes basic information about data, making it easier to find and work with particular instances of data.
What’s Included In The Metadata?
Metadata isn’t as much related to what you type on a handheld device or utter on the phone. Rather it is the trail of footprints you leave behind when you visit sites, download files, are online. Understandably, it can give ISPs, telecom companies, snoopers and government agencies everything about your internet activity.
What People Says About Metadata Retention?
It is safe to say that when it comes to online privacy, the average internet user in Australian still doesn’t grasp the implications of the new Data Retention law. In an interview with News.com.au, Dr Jake Goldenfein from Swinburne University of Technology explained,
“When it comes to your online data and the privacy protections afforded to it, there’s a lot we don’t know. Unfortunately we just don’t really know what ISPs are doing with data really. We don’t know if it’s being anonymised and sold, or the degree to which the data they collect is being regulated by privacy law because evidently it depends on the structure of the data bases through which it’s retained.”
While the average internet user in Australia would identify freedom as a constitutional right, many are unable to relate the concept with online freedom and privacy.
However, Digital Rights advocacy groups across Australia have proactively rallied against the law. They recently called for a “National Get A VPN Day” to emphasize upon internet users the importance of protecting their personal data, and online privacy and freedom.

How To Protect Your Data From Metadata Retention Law?
Now that you know the importance of Metadata in tracking your trail digital footprints, you should have also realized how easy it is for your ISP, Telecom Company or the Government to keep a tab on your online activity.
However, there are many ways you can actually wipe out this digital trail and avoid any awkward encounters with the authorities. To completely avoid metadata retention, VPN is the most effective and the cheapest way to prevent your data from ISPs, telecom companies and Govt. Agencies. You can protect your data by getting the most secure VPN service such as IVACY VPN, which is considered the best VPN for Australia to stop Metadata Retention.
How VPN Helps You In Protecting Your Personal Information?
Since all your data is encrypted during the data transfer process, there is no way it can be tracked or cracked by ISPs, telecom companies, government agencies or any other third-party for that matter.
Once you’re connected to a VPN, the only information about you that your ISP will be able to see is that you’re connected to a VPN server. All other personal information is encrypted with advanced security protocols of the VPN, making it impossible for your ISP to crack it.
It is understandable, therefore, why digital right groups in Australia promptly called for National Get A VPN Day right after the Data Retention law was passed.
About Author: Anas Baig
Anas Baig is a Cyber Security Expert, a computer science graduate specializing in internet security, science and technology. Also, a Security Professional with a passion for robots & IoT devices. Follow him on Twitter
Follow him on Twitter @anasbaigdm, or email him directly by clicking here.
 
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – privacy, Metadata Retention)
