
					TeamBerserk announced a leaked of document data from DHS Fusion Center					
The Group of hackers known as TeamBerserk claim to have stolen 54mb of compressed documents from the systems of some US Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Intelligence Fusion Centers.
The group announced it with a Tweet:

A fusion center is an information sharing center, designed to promote information sharing at the federal level between agencies such as the CIA, FBI, U.S. Department of Justice, U.S. Military, government offices.
The DHS counts several Intelligence Fusion Centers, the agency recognized at least 72 centers, but hackers haven’t revealed which ones they’ve hacked, one of the documents stolen appears to belong to the Kansas Intelligence Fusion Center.

The leaked data contains about 20 folders and 45 files that appear to be related to recent big events in US such as Boston bombing and terrorism as well as smaller stuff like driving and drug enforcement and more.
The documents leaked by TeamBerserk are arranged in two folders named Classified and Unclassified. The “Classified” folder contains some empty subfolders, the “Unclassified” folder include  “unclassified/for official use only” and Law Enforcement Sensitive (U/LES) documents.

The hackers of the group TeamBerserk reveled that they’re publishing a “selection of documents” just to demonstrate that they really hacked DHS system, they defined themselves a “real threats out there against all Americans and the United States.”
The classified folders are empty because TeamBerserk doesn’t want to harm innocent people.
“We Berserk are against any Human Trafficking, Gang Activity and Illegal Drugs because these kinds of things make our communities bad places for everyone. The security of our Nation needs to be inspected and made better without hurting the rights of Americans,” “We can’t show you the scarier things, but these other documents are being circulated among Anonymous. If Anonymous agrees to release those they will be released to the public.” states an official message issued by the group.
Some documents contain information on the activities of the sovereign citizen movement, a loose grouping of American litigants, commentators, tax protesters and financial scheme promoters
One of the document reports a partial IP address, 209.143.146.xxx, located in Houston, Texas.
It seems that the TeamBerserk hackers in a first phase breached the California Intelligence Fusion Center, gaining necessary information to successfully hack later other centers in the Midwest.
“Information will no longer be hidden from Anonymous. We will not allow you to use Terrorism as an excuse to [expletive] over Anonymous. We will not allow you to protect the banksters. We do not stand for an American future that will be like the country of India. You should have expected us,” is the message sent to the FBI.
Hackers of TeamBerserk last December started the campaign called opBerserkChristmas, they announced to  make donations “to the less fortunate” using credit cards of government officials and employees, and corporations. In October 2013 the group hacked The West Australian News website and on June 2013 it hacked the CITIC Telecom International company and 2,583 accounts were leaked.
This last attack is most concerning, the disclosure of confidential or secret data could harm homeland security, foreign state-sponsored hackers and cyber criminals could use them to conduct further attacks with unpredictable consequences.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  hacktivism, TeamBerserk)
