
					Kapustkiy hacked the website of the Costa Rica Embassy in China					
The hacker Kapustkiy continues its string of hack, today he announced a news data breach, the victim is the Costa Rica Embassy in China.
Kapustkiy accessed a database containing 280 login credentials, but just published online 50 of them as a proof of the attack. Just after the attack, the Costa Rica Embassy in China, costaricaembassycn.com,  was not reachable.

 
The website has 280 user entries, it was running on a WordPress platform and after a few tests, the hacker discovered that it was affected by several SQL Injection flaws.
“The first thing I did was to start the exploitation of a SQL vulnerability I have discovered.” said Kapustkiy. “Then I tried brute force and I got a huge list of users”
“I have published around 50 users, the rest is private”
The hacker, who discovered 4 databases in the hack, leaked data belonging to Costa Rica Embassy in China at the following URL:
http://pastebin.com/hEWsuaq2 
Leaked records include IDs, emails, and encrypted passwords. Kapustkiy confirmed me that he has reported the vulnerability to the CNCERT/CC and to the website administrator.
The young hacker is very active, a few days ago he announced the data breach of the Slovak Chamber of Commerce (www.scci.sk) that affected more than 4,000 user records.
Recently Kapustkiy targeted several organizations, including the Consular Department of the Embassy of the Russian Federation, the Argentinian Ministry of Industry, the National Assembly of Ecuador, the Venezuela Army, the High Commission of Ghana & Fiji in India, the India Regional Council as well as organizations and embassies across the world.
He also broke into the ‘Dipartimento dellaFunzione Pubblica’ Office of the Italian Government, the Paraguay Embassy of Taiwan (www.embapartwroc.com.tw), and the Indian Embassies in Switzerland, Mali, Romania, Italy, Malawi, and Libya.
A curiosity, in the manifesto published on PasteBin the hacker wrote
“A SQL Weapon is the most dangerous weapon on the Internet”
and the facts seem to confirm it.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Kapustkiy, Costa Rica Embassy in China.)
