
					The Fappening Continues, Nudes of celebrities on line again					
During the last weeks media have focused their attention on the celebrity iCloud hacking case, hundreds of naked pictures are available online raising the interest to the level of security offered by cloud storage services.
Apple confirmed that victims suffered targeted attacks which have had no impact on iCloud infrastructure, but that anyway allowed hackers to violate celebrities’ accounts.
A new collection of nude photos of celebrities has been leaked online and it seems that this new wave is linked to the previous massive leak of celebrities intimate-images.
 

 
The celebrities nude pictures first appeared online on Saturday morning, also in this case they were published on the image-sharing website 4Chan and were also posted by users on Reddit. The naked pictures were quickly removed by the site administrators according to copyright infringement policy.
Also in this case illustrious celebrities fallen victims of the hackers, including Kim Kardashian, the actress Vanessa Hudgens, the US national women’s soccer team player Hope Solo, Mary-Kate Olsen, Avril Lavigne, Hayden Panettiere, Lake Bell, Leelee Sobieski and former Disney stars Aly and AJ Michalka.
The leaked collection includes a video of Aubrey Plaza and previously unreleased nude photographs of celebrities, such as Jennifer Lawrence and Kaley Cuoco.
The FBI is investigating the case, security experts suspected in first time that hackers hacked a huge quantity of iCloud accounts searching for private pictures of persons of interest, including celebrities.
“This is a flagrant violation of privacy,” Lawrence’s publicist Liz Mahoney wrote in a statement.“The authorities have been contacted and will prosecute anyone who posts the stolen photos of Jennifer Lawrence.”
According to Apple the company systems weren’t breached due to an iCloud vulnerability disclosed online recently, Apple’s CEO, Tim Cook, confirmed that celebrities were either victim of phishing attacks or had had their iCloud account hijacked because of threat actors had guessed the security questions in an effort to obtain credentials.
 Let’s wait for further news from the ongoing investigation.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – iCloud, Nude photos of celebrities)
