
					Is Phineas Fisher behind the AKP hack that allowed the disclosure of Erdogan Emails?					
A few hours ago I reported the news of the ban on Wikileaks decide by the Turkish Government in response to the publishing of the Erdogan Emails, now the popular Phineas Phisher has claimed responsibility for hacking Turkey’s ruling party, the AKP, and stealing more the precious emails.
“I hacked AKP,” Phineas Fisher tweeted and posted a link to a 100 gigabytes archive composed of several files.
Phineas Fisher is the same hacktivist that breached the surveillance firms  Gamma International and Hacking Team, and that recently has stolen $10,000 from a bank and donated the equivalent in Bitcoin to Kurdish anticapitalists in Rojava.
The motivation behind the attack is linked to the attacks launched by the Turkish Government against the people  in Rojava and Bakur.
“I hacked AKP (the ruling party in Turkey) because I support the society people are trying to build in Rojava and Bakur [1], and they’re being attacked by Turkey. I don’t see leaking as an end in itself, so I was talking with people in Rojava and Bakur to see how best to use the access I’d gotten.” the hacker explained. 

Lorenzo Bicchierai from Motherboard has reached the notorious hacker Phineas Fisher who released the following statement.
“What better way to celebrate the release of VICE’s Cyberwar than by attacking a NATO member?” 
The hacker referred the VICELAND documentary series on hacking and cybersecurity, which include an interview with him that is represented by a Puppet.

The hacker also refers a communication problem between Wikileaks and the person who gave them a copy of the first file exfiltrated by Phineas Phisher.
“There was a miscommunication between some of them and someone gave a copy of the first file I’d downloaded (which had about half of @akparti.org.tr’s email up to that point) to WikiLeaks. They quickly corrected the miscommunication and asked WikiLeaks to hold off on publishing it, but WikiLeaks decided to publish now anyway with the international attention from the recent coup attempt. To be fair to WikiLeaks, they didn’t know I was still in AKP’s network downloading files at the time they announced they were publishing, but they did know that the source who had given them the file was asking them to wait.” he added. 
The security expert Thomas White, aka TheCthulhu, published online the entire archive.

Stay Tuned
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Erdogan Emails, Turkey)
