
					#opKKK Anonymous denied involvement in recent leak					
“We will release, to the global public, the identities of up to 1,000 Klan members, Ghoul Squad affiliates and other close associates of various factions of the Ku Klux Klan across the United States.”

 “we will be revealing about 1000 of your klan member identities.” the Anonymous PUTNAIOOACA said. “We are not attacking you because of what you believe in as we fight for freedom of speech, We are attacking you because of what you do to our brothers and sisters.” “You messed with our family and now we will mess with yours.”
But PUTNAIOOACA collective seems to be interested in revealing the identities of the KKK members working in the institutions ( Law enforcement, politicians, and any public servant or government representative)
As promised, early this week someone disclosed online a list of alleged Ku Klux Klan members that included several US senators. The official account for the @Operation_KKK took the distance from the announcement and posted the following message.
The information disclosed by other groups alleged to belong to Anonymous, but not members of #OpKKK, Pastebin, includes total phone numbers and email addresses allegedly belonging to KKK members. The list contains the names of at least 4 U.S. Senators and 5 City Mayors.


Obviously something went wrong, experts speculate that a faction of the collective has moved independently and it wants to influence the @Operation_KKK’s effort. Other experts speculate that someone want to use the Anonymous Brand and the #opKKK to launch a smear campaign against prominent personalities.
At the time I was writing Anonymous is inviting all to join it today for an ALL DAY town hall conversation on race, racism, terror & free speech.( #OpKKK #HoodsOff)
For any information about #OpKKK Anonymous invited to refer to the official .@Operation_KKK twitter account
Hey guys, tomorrow November 5 is Guy Fawkes’ Day … what will happen?
Stay Tuned!
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Anonymous #OpKKK, hacktivism, KKK)
