
					The xDedic marketplace is selling over 70,000 hacked Servers					
Security experts from Kaspersky Lab have conducted an interesting investigation of a massive Russian underground market, dubbed xDedic, that offers access to more than 70,000 servers online.
Everyone accessing the marketplace could buy and sell access to compromised servers, the costs are very low, as little as $6 for a single access.

The researchers confirmed that the xDedic marketplace is run by a Russian-speaking group, it currently offers 70,624 hacked Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) servers from 173 countries.
xDedic is a powerful example of a crime-as-a-service, it is a well-organized and supported cybercriminal marketplace that is offering everyone from entry-level cybercriminals to APT groups fast, cheap and easy access to legitimate organizational infrastructure.
The servers belong to reputable organizations, including government networks, corporations, and universities that obviously are not aware that their systems have been breached.
This aspect is crucial for a successful cyber attack because it allows the attackers to rapidly organize an offensive that can remain under the radar.
Threat actors could use the server to manage phishing campaigns, targeted attacks or launch a wide range of attacks, including malware-based attacks and DDoS.
Giving a close look to the servers it is possible to note that many of them provide access to popular consumer websites and services, in some cases they run applications for mail, financial accounting, and Point-of-Sale (PoS) processing.
The investigation on the xDedic marketplace started after a European internet service provider (ISP) alerted Kaspersky Lab.
Once hackers breach a server through a brute-force attack they can resell the access on the xDedic marketplace.
“The process is simple and thorough: hackers break into servers, often through brute-force attacks, and bring the credentials to xDedic.  The hacked servers are then checked for their RDP configuration, memory, software, browsing history and more – all features that customers can search through before buying.” Reported the official announcement issued by Kaspersky.
Currently the xDedic marketplace has a huge inventory that includes access to:
Another interesting aspect of the story is that the xDedic marketplace seems to be active at least since 2014, but it reached a peak of notoriety since the middle of 2015.
In May 2016, 416 different sellers offer access to their systems, the top 10 countries affected are: Brazil, China, Russia, India, Spain, Italy, France, Australia, South Africa and Malaysia.
“In May 2016, we counted 70,624 servers available for purchase, from 416 unique sellers in 173 affected countries. In March 2016, the number was about 55,000, a clear indication that the database of users and servers is carefully maintained and updated.” states a blog post published by SecureList.

Be aware, the criminal crew behind the xDedic marketplace only provides a trading platform and has no links or affiliations to the sellers.
“xDedic is further confirmation that cybercrime-as-a-service is expanding through the addition of commercial ecosystems and trading platforms. Its existence makes it easier than ever for everyone, from low-skilled malicious attackers to nation-state backed APTs to engage in potentially devastating attacks in a way that is cheap, fast and effective. The ultimate victims are not just the consumers or organizations targeted in an attack, but also the unsuspecting owners of the servers: they are likely to be completely unaware that their servers are being hijacked again and again for different attacks, all conducted right under their nose,” said Costin Raiu, Director, Global Research and Analysis Team, Kaspersky Lab.
Organizations have to consider seriously the security of their infrastructures that could be abused in different ways.
As usual, Kaspersky advises them to install a robust security solution, to enforce the adoption of a password policy, to use of strong authentication mechanisms and to implement a continuous process of patch management.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – xDedic marketplace, cybercrime)
