
					New docs confirm CIA planned to kidnap Snowden					
According to documents obtained by the Danish media outlet Denfri.dk, the US CIA agency is planning to kidnap Edward Snowden. The documents were obtained by Denfri through a Freedom of Information Act suit in August 2015.

A paramilitary team belonging to the CIA is operative in Copenhagen, ready to kidnap the popular whistleblower and bring him in the US with an aircraft already in the same city.
The CIA agents are following the moves of Snowden trying to exploit a trip in one of the European countries, it would be the moment when kidnaps the man.
The presence of a CIA plane in Copenhagen was first reported in 2014 by The Register, it is a Gulfstream V, registered under the number N977GA.
“On the evening of 24 June 2013, as Snowden arrived in Moscow from Hong Kong intending to fly on to Cuba, an unmarked Gulfstream V business jet – tail number N977GA – took off from a quiet commercial airport 30 miles from Washington DC. Manassas Regional Airport discreetly offers its clients “the personal accommodations and amenities you can’t find at commercial airports”. wrote The Register.
“Early next morning, N977GA was detected heading east over Scotland at the unusually high altitude of 45,000 feet. It had not filed a flight plan, and was flying above the level at which air traffic control reporting is mandatory.”

The same aircraft has been used by the CIA to transport captives to the CIA’s secret prisons set up since 9/11.
The documents obtained by the Denfri confirmed the circumstance revealing that Danish police and government officers approved the positioning of the CIA plane in Copenhagen for unspecified “state purposes.”
The documents include a government letter from FBI representatives that ask for support of the Norwegian government. The law agency requested the Norwegian authorities immediately notify US intelligence agencies in the event that Snowden crossed to Norway, Finland, Sweden or Denmark.
The Danish intelligence has sought to preserve total secrecy in relation to the stationing of the CIA aircraft in Copenhagen .
“Denmark’s relationship with the USA would be damaged if the information [content redacted from the documents] becomes public knowledge,” The Denmark’s interior ministry told Denfri.

I think that the kidnapping Snowden would be a serious error for the US intelligence, according to former NSA Director Keith Alexander, Snowden downloaded more than 1 million secret US government documents, it is likely that those documents are already in the hands of a network of journalist ready to disclose them in case of problems.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Snowden, CIA)
