
					Talos Team discovered serious issues in Aerospike Database Server					
Security experts from Cisco Talos have discovered several vulnerabilities in the Aerospike Database Server, a high-performance, and open source NoSQL database.
It is used by several major brands for high-performance applications, including Kayak, AppNexus, Adform, adMarketplace and BlueKai.
The Cisco Talos team discovered that Aerospace Database Server 3.10.0.3, and likely earlier versions, is affected by three flaws that have been rated as critical and high severity, including remote code execution and information disclosure issues.
Talos has published technical details of the vulnerabilities in the advisories that also include proof-of-concept (PoC) code for them.
“Talos is disclosing multiple vulnerabilities discovered in the Aerospike Database Server. These vulnerabilities range from memory disclosure to potential remote code execution. This software is used by various companies that require a high performance NoSQL database. Aerospike fixed these issues in  version 3.11.” reads the advisory published by the Talos Team.
The first security vulnerability, tracked as CVE-2016-9050, is an out-of-bounds read issue that affects the client message-parsing functionality. An attacker can exploit it by sending a specially crafted packet to the listening port which can result in memory disclosure or a denial-of-service (DoS) condition.
A second vulnerability, tracked as CVE-2016-9052, is an arbitrary code execution that affects a different function, namely “as_sindex__simatch_by_iname.”
The third one tracked as CVE-2016-9054, is a stack-based buffer overflow that resides in the querying functionality, specifically the “as_sindex__simatch_list_set_binid” function. It is quite simple to exploit, an attacker has to connect to the listening port to remotely execute arbitrary code via a specially crafted packet that triggers the vulnerability.
The flaws were reported to the Aerospike development team on December 23 and they addresses them on January 5 in version 3.11.0.
Talos has published advisories containing technical details and proof-of-concept (PoC) code for each of the vulnerabilities.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Aerospike Database Server, hacking)
