
					A New Google API Launched, in Avoidance of Android Passwords					
It is true that Android security apps work wonder and also Google has been trying to use fewer passwords or none whatsoever, making it harder for someone to penetrate the privacy of its users. 
Now, with the launch of a new API, the company took a step further towards the right direction. Dashlane and Google are working together on this project, which is eloquently called Open YOLO (You Only Login Once Rather than You Only Live Once).
According to the blog post from Malaika Nicholas, community manager at Dashlane: “Dashlane is spearheading the collaboration with other top password management companies, who will contribute their unique security and software development expertise to improve the design and implementation of this open API. We’re excited to cooperate on an open solution that puts the user’s experience first when they choose how to manage secure logins.”

User experience is of the essence since many people do not handle their passwords well enough. They spend a lot of time trying to come up with complicated, difficult passwords, or they use the same passwords over and over again. 
This is not a situation that can go on forever. Instead, Android security breaches have their root in the lack of safety. With this API, the user experience is going to improve a great deal.
There are others of course that share their concerns about using passwords altogether. In other words, they claim that passwords are wrong, and nobody should use them. 
On the contrary, they should walk to an entirely different path. Two-factor or multi-factor authentication, the use of biometrics and even geolocation are all innovative technologies. These are solutions that have long term effects and can work wonders for the security of everyone.
This acknowledgement is backed by a recent report of a study, which revealed the likes and preferences of people in the field of passwords and security. To be more specific, more than half of the respondents (52% to be exact) would prefer a new technology to replace username and password in their early forms. This means that users have become well aware of the dangers lying behind the lack of security. So, they are open to change.
Google has made a step, whether this move is going to prove radical or not. The truth is that new methods for accessing accounts are a must, and soon many companies will have practical solutions for users.
Written by Ali Qamar, Founder/Chief Editor at Cyberogism.com
Author Bio:
Ali Qamar is a tech and security enthusiast who enjoys “deep” research to dig out modern discoveries in the security industry. Currently, he is the chief editor at Cyberogism.com, an ultimate source for tech, security and innovation. To be frank and honest, Ali started working online as a freelancer and still shares the knowledge for a living. He is passionate about sharing the knowledge with people, and always try to give only the best. Follow Ali on Twitter @AliQammar57
 
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Google API, passwords)
