
					Supercell, Clash of Clans authors, hacked. 1 Million accounts compromised					
The firm Supercell, the authors of the notorious “The Clash of Clans” mobile game admitted that accounts on Supercell community forum have been hacked. Supercell is the creator of popular games such as Clash of Clans, Hay Day, Clash Royale, and Boom Beach.
According to an official statement issued by the company, hackers compromised more than 1 million accounts in a data breach occurred in September 2016.
LeakBase confirmed that the number of affected user account is 1 million.
The cyber attack affected the Supercell community forum said in an official statement that the breach happened in September 2016 and that the site’s forums were affected. According to the company,  hackers exploited a vulnerability in the Vbulletin CMS used by Supercell for its forums.
The company confirmed that game accounts weren’t affected by the data breach.
“As we’ve said before, to provide our forum service we use software from vbulletin.com. We’re currently looking into report that a vulnerability allowed third-party hackers to gain illegal access to some forum user information, including a number of emails and encrypted passwords.” reads the official statement from the company. “Our preliminary investigation suggests that the breach happened in September 2016 and it has since been fixed. ” 

Supercell urges users to change the password they are using on the affected forum as soon as possible. You can reset your password here:
Users can reset their password here: https://forum.supercell.com/login.php?do=lostpw
As usual, let me suggest users change the password in any other web service they are using with the same login credentials. As a general guideline, matching credentials should not be used on multiple sites.
“We take any such breaches very seriously and we follow very strict policies when it comes to security. Please note that this breach only affects our Forum service. Game accounts have not been affected.” the company added.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Clash of Clans, Data breach)
