
					Denmark Plans to Invest $75 Million towards Empowering its Cyber Control					
Investing in a more offensive system regarding cyber control and attacks is of paramount importance for Denmark. $75 million will have been placed to such a cause by 2017, shielding Denmark and putting it among the most powerful countries in this field.
By 2017, Denmark is planning to have invested about $75 million into the enhancement of its cyber control, due to the emerging dangers in the field of hostile attacks and other incidents that may trigger further problems to the country.
According to a recent report, the Danish Government is considering taking the extra step and shielding its cyber division with quite a few offensive schemes. Besides being protected from cyber attacks, another aspect to focus on is in fact the requirement to be capable of launching cyber attacks against hostile countries, if needed.

What has led to this decision was indeed the increase in the overall incidents of cyber attacks against Denmark, with at least four businesses being the target of sophisticated DDoS attacks.
Of course, the defence of the country was also at stake due to these attacks. In order to prevent any additional damage and in order to limit the breaches and empower the tools used on behalf of the cyber division of the country, Denmark is convinced as to how to deal with the issue.
What troubles the Government and involves a lot of debate is whether or not the Parliament should be made aware prior to the attacks. In other words, there are people who regard informing the Parliament as essential for the whole procedure.
Anders Henriksen, who has been experienced in International Law and works at the University of Copenhagen, commented on such a thought:
“When we go to war, it is parliament that declares war and the military that carries it out.” On the other hand, the Defense Minister Nicolai Wammen expressed a different opinion: 
“I am convinced that the constitutional requirement to include parliament in the given situation can be reconciled with any concerns in relation to the operation’s implementation and security.”
Written by: Ali Qamar, Founder/Chief Editor at SecurityGladiators.com
Author Bio:
Ali Qamar is an Internet security research enthusiast who enjoys “deep” research to dig out modern discoveries in the security industry. He is the founder and chief editor at Security Gladiators, an ultimate source for cyber security. To be frank and honest, Ali started working online as a freelancer and still shares the knowledge for a living. He is passionate about sharing the knowledge with people, and always try to give only the best. Follow Ali on Twitter @AliQammar57
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  Denmark, cyber warfare)
