
					Kapustkiy breached an Italian Government website, exposing 9,000 of 45,000 records					
A few days ago I was contacted by a young hacker that breached Indian embassies across the worlds, he goes online with the moniker Kapustkiy.
Kapustkiy is a pentester that is targeting organizations and embassies across the world. Recently he breached the Paraguay Embassy of Taiwan (www.embapartwroc.com.tw), while a few days ago the hacker and his friend Kasimierz (@Kasimierz_) hacked the Indian Embassies in Switzerland, Mali, Romania, Italy, Malawi, and Libya. Kapustkiy and his friend Kasimierz (@Kasimierz_).
Indian authorities have issued a public statement to thank the young hacker for exposing the vulnerabilities in their websites.
“Thank you for your advice,” said Sanjay Kumar Verma, Joint Secretary, eGovernance and Information Technology. “We are fixing codes one by one. Your help in probing websites of various Indian embassies is a great help.”
Other victims are two subdomains of Virginia University & Sub domain of University of Wisconsin (http://pastebin.com/i1wmM5D1 ) and another embassy, the Indian Embassy in New York (http://pastebin.com/Akm9x4dD )
Yesterday he contacted me because he hacked a website belonging to the Italian Government. The database accessed by the hacker contains roughly 45,000 users, including login credentials.
Kapustkiy told me he has exploited an SQLi flaw in the ‘Dipartimento della Funzione Pubblica’ website to gain access to the database. He shared a Pastebin link containing the reference to an excel file containing the user records in the database.
The excel includes email addresses of the users, used as username, and encrypted passwords.
The link points to an excel file containing only 9,000 records, the young hacker published only a small portion of overall data in order to give Italian experts time to solve the problem.
Kapustkiy first contacted the site’s administrators to report the issue but without reply, only after the news went public someone has put the site in maintenance mode.

“I did not get any response from the administrators. I hope they will improve their security,” he told me.
At the time I was writing the excel file is still online.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Kapustkiy, hacking)
