
					ENISA – CTI – EU | Bonding EU Cyber Threat Intelligence					
The event is going to be organized in Rome, Italy, from October 30th to 31st. The venue of the event are the premises of the Link University in Rome. The event will be free of charge.
The following CTI thematic areas will be covered:
For each of the above group of topics, a dedicated workshop will be organized. Each of those parallel workshops will last for ca. 4 hours. In each workshop, position statements of participants will be made. These statements will regard solutions, experiences, problems, open points, etc. formulated by CTI stakeholders of various types. We foresee ca. 4 such presentation lasting for ca. 15 minutes. Care will be taken to have all stakeholder groups represented in those presentations (mainly business users, vendors, governments, end-users/SMEs). Each presentation will last for ca. 15 minutes, followed by a discussion of ca. 15 minutes. Points discussed will be collected and finally prioritized.
The results of all workshops will be presented by means of a plenary session in the afternoon. The results of each workshop will be presented within a ca. 20 minutes slot.
The total duration of the event will be from ca. 14:00 – 17:00 on October 30th and from 9:00 to ca. 16:30 on October 31st. The breakout workshops will last for ca. 4 hours, while the plenary session in the afternoon will last 2 hours. On the 30th a plenary session will be organized that will also serve as “ice-breaker” for the participants. Some additional social activities (e.g. reception) will be organized. Details will be announced in due time.

ENISA would like to offer the opportunity to non-profit organizations/activities in the area of Cyber Threat Intelligence, such as EU Horizon 2020 projects, national academic research and developments projects, open source communities, etc. to disseminate their work through this event. This can be achieved by means of posters, flyers, tool demonstrations etc.
Interested organizations are encouraged to contact ENISA to express their interest, together with some information about the dissemination material (short description of the item to be presented, relevance to CTI, method of presentation, particular presentation requirements). ENISA will review this material via the ENISA Threat Landscape Stakeholder Group and will inform the organizations about the acceptance of their presentation. The review of the material is considered as a filter for the relevance and quality of the submissions but also for the spatial availabilities at the venue of the event.
Details of the event structure and contributors can be found here.
The event is organized in cooperation with:




 
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  ENISA, CTI)
