
					Cisco fixes DoS, Authentication Bypass issues with its products and OSPF flaw					
Cisco addressed 15 vulnerabilities affecting a dozen products, including two high severity flaws that could be exploited by attackers to trigger a denial of service condition or bypass local authentication.
CISCO also addressed four cross-site scripting vulnerabilities, a cross-site request forgery vulnerability, two SQL vulnerabilities, and a directory traversal vulnerability.
The most important issues affect the network administration product CISCO Identity Services Engine and its Videoscape Distribution Suite. The bypass local authentication issue is caused by the improper handling of authentication requests and policy assignment.

To exploit the flaw, an attacker could authenticate with a valid external user account that matches an internal username, then he will receive the authorization policy of the internal account. If successful the exploit would grant the attacker Super Admin privileges for the engine’s admin portal, Cisco said.
According to CISCO, the attacker would gain Super Admin privileges for the engine’s admin portal.
The denial of service vulnerability affects the virtual video infrastructure solution Videoscape Distribution Suite, that is not able to manage an excessive number of connections can cause the exhaustion of allotted resources.
“A vulnerability in the cache server within Cisco Videoscape Distribution Suite (VDS) for Television could allow an unauthenticated, remote attacker to cause a denial of service (DoS) condition on a targeted appliance.” states the CISCO advisory.
“The vulnerability is due to excessive mapped connections exhausting the allotted resources within the system. An attacker could exploit this vulnerability by sending large amounts of inbound traffic to a device with the intention of overloading certain resources. A successful exploit could cause the device to reload, resulting in a DoS condition.”
CISCO also published an advisory for several products affected by a bug involving the routing protocol Open Shortest Path First (OSPF).
A remote unauthenticated attacker can take full control of the OSPF Autonomous System (AS) domain routing table and intercept or black-hole traffic.
“The attacker could exploit this vulnerability by injecting crafted OSPF packets. Successful exploitation could cause the targeted router to flush its routing table and propagate the crafted OSPF LSA type 1 update throughout the OSPF AS domain.” states the advisory.
“To exploit this vulnerability, an attacker must accurately determine certain parameters within the LSA database on the target router,” Cisco warned. “This vulnerability can only be triggered by sending crafted unicast or multicast OSPF LSA type 1 packets. No other LSA type packets can trigger this vulnerability.”
CISCO has already issued security patches for affected products.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  hacking)
