
					The Australian government presents its Cyber Security Strategy					
The Australian Government announced its cyber security strategy that includes AU$230 million spending over four years to improve the resilience to cyber attacks of the national critical infrastructure.
The strategy is very complete, it includes defensive aspects for both public and private industries and also the economic support for 5000 security tests for medium enterprises and information sharing activities.
The Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull outlined the investments in cyber security, the government will spend $230 million for measures that include the establishment of Joint Cyber Threat Centres.
Roughly AU$3om will be reserved for the creation of a Cyber Security Growth Centre with the private sector, the organization aims to coordinate the national cyber security innovation network. Other AU$47m will be spent to establish joint intelligence sharing centres in the most important cities of the country.

According to the cyber security strategy, the Government will also spend AU$41m to improve the capabilities of the national Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT Australia) and recruit new cyber security experts in the strategic Government agencies, including the Australian Federal Police, Crime Commission, and Australian Signals Directorate.
Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull explained that national cyber resources are only involved in attacks in defense and deterrence purposes. Hi did not acknowledge cyber espionage activities conducted for intelligence purposes, even the ones operated by the Five Eyes alliance.
“The role of security is as important today as it has been in the past,” said Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull Turnbull told reporters. “Within very specific circumstances the Government will work with the private sector within agreed legal frameworks and oversight to fight serious online crime and extremism.” “Collaboration is absolutely key.”
A part of the presentation offered by the Minister is very meaningful because open to the use of offensive cyber security capabilities conducted by the Australian Signals Directorate.
Mr Turnbull admitted for the first time that the Federal Government has the ability to launch cyber attacks against its adversaries.
“An offensive cyber capability housed in the Australian signals directorate provides another option for Government to respond,” he said.
“The use of such a capability is subject to stringent legal oversight.” “… defensive measures may not always be adequate to respond to serious cyber incidents against Australian networks … an offensive cyber security capability housed in the Australian Signals Directorate provides another option for governments to respond.” states the Prime Minister.
“The use of such as capability is subject to stringent legal oversight and is consistent with our support for the international rules-based order, and our obligations under international law.
“Acknowledging this offensive capability adds a level of deterrence, it adds to our credibility as we promote norms of good behaviour on the international stage and, importantly, familiarity with offensive measures enhances our defensive capabilities as well.”
The politician also cited the security breaches of the Bureau of Meteorology and the Department of Parliamentary Services, arguing the necessity to improve the cyber security posture of the country.
The Prime Minister has appointed Children’s eSafety Commissioner Alastair MacGibbon as his special adviser on cyber security, he will be responsible for leading development of cyber security strategy and policy.
Mr Turnbull introduced him as the man responsible for a “cultural change” on the approach to the cyber security.
The new cyber strategy introduces also new figures like the Assistant Minister on Cyber Security and the Cyber Ambassador.

Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Australian Cyber Security Strategy, Information Warfare)
