
					UK is going to open the National Cyber Security Centre with 700 experts					
UK confirms to be one of the most advanced countries on cyber security and announce the imminent opening of the UK’s first national anti-cybercrime centre, the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC).
The anti-cybercrime centre will open in London this week with 700 cyber security experts, it is the response of the UK Government to the threat posed by cyber attacks against national infrastructure.
The new National Cyber Security Centre will fight against hackers, cyber criminal syndicates and terrorists online.
Ciaran Martin, former director general for cyber security at GCHQ, will lead the NCSC.
The GCHQ announced that one of the first missions assigned to the Centre is to work with the Bank of England to make awareness of cyber threats that are targeting the financial sector for.
“Our role is helping to make the UK the safest place to live and do business online. So we’re going to tackle the major threats from hostile states and criminal gangs.” Mr Martin said.
“But we’re also going to work tirelessly to automatically protect people from those smaller scale and deeply damaging attacks that cause so much disruption and frustration.”
“We’ll also continue our work helping people and businesses understand better what they need to do to protect themselves.”

The Dailymail reported also the comment of Mr Ben Gummer, Minister for the Cabinet Office and Paymaster General, who highlighted the importance of the Centre for SMBs that will receive all the necessary support to defeat cyber attacks.
“London leads the world in so many ways already. It is only right that we establish the country’s first Cyber Security Centre in the heart of the capital as Britain continues to lead in tackling this global issue.” said Ben Gummer.
“Whilst retaining access to the world leading capabilities, partnerships and people of the intelligence community, this new centre will have an ‘open-door’ policy which will make it easier for businesses of all sizes to get the best support available for cyber issue.”
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – National Cyber Security Centre, UK) 
