
					Intel And Europol together against the cybercrime					
Article posted on Security Gladiators
Europol received a boost in its fight against cybercrime after McAfee signed an MOU to help shore up Europol’s security operations. The MOU will see the two combine resources and expertise in forming a solid defense against cybercrime, in an already porous battle line.
McAfee, acquired by Intel Security group in 2010, will offer technical support to Europol in addition to participating in joint cybercrime operations and sharing non-operational data on cybercrime.  With its innovative approach to internet security and vast intelligence on Global threats, Intel security will be an important strategic ally to EU’s top cops.
“Cybercrime has advanced to a degree that no one entity can combat it alone,” said Raj Samani, chief technology officer for EMEA at Intel Security and special advisor to the EUROPOL Cybercrime Centre on Internet Security . “I’m excited to work with the excellent team Europol and contribute expertise so that we can together to effectively address the cybercrime problem.”
High profile attacks such as the JPMorgan, Whitehouse and the Target clearly shows that cybercriminals are advancing their techniques and expertise, leaving law enforcement agencies entirely clueless in all occasions. In such an environment, it is paramount that all those on the receiving end including law enforcement agencies stage a united front, a fact Troels Oerting, Head of the EC3 acknowledged when welcoming Intel on board.
“Today we add the resources of Intel Security to our list of capabilities dedicated to protecting our digital lives. This task cannot be done by law enforcement alone, and requires a much broader approach,” said Oerting.

Apparently, McAfee and Europol have partnered on cybercrime before and the MOU signed on Wednesday was only meant to formalize and expand their co-operation.
“Intel Security has assisted the European Cybercrime Centre (EC3) in the past and, with the signing of this MOU, our cooperation will continue to the benefit of all law-abiding users of the Internet and to the disadvantage of cybercriminals,” said Oerting in a press release.
In the past, Cyber security firms have only cooperated with law enforcement agencies through informal arrangements. The new MOU between Intel Security and Europol marks a new era of cooperation in fighting cybercrime, with more cyber security firms expected to come on board in the coming days.
EU state countries have also shown unprecedented cooperation in the war against cybercrime. Currently, over 30 states have ratified the Council of Europe’s Convention on Cybercrime, an international treaty that seeks to harmonize cybercrime Laws among party states. The treaty will also establish a cross-border and cybercrime investigation unit to respond on cyber threats on a real time basis.
Europol is a cross border agency that helps combat international crimes in the European Union. Its cybercrime unit, European Cybercrime Unit (EC3), located in The Hague offers technical supports to other EU states cybercrime units. EC3, formed last year, relies Europol’s extensive network to help EU states investigate and comber cybercrime, including state backed cyber-espionage attacks that are currently ruling the cyberspace.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  Intel ,Europol ,Cybercrime)
Article posted on Security Gladiators
