
					Internet Systems Consortium rolled out security updates to address 2 flaws in BIND DNS Software					
Both vulnerabilities could be exploited by attackers to cause a denial-of-service (DoS) condition, the first issue tracked as CVE-2018-5737 can also cause severe operational problems such as degradation of the service.
“A problem with the implementation of the new serve-stale feature in BIND 9.12 can lead to an assertion failure in rbtdb.c, even when stale-answer-enable is off.  Additionally, problematic interaction between the serve-stale feature and NSEC aggressive negative caching can in some cases cause undesirable behavior from named, such as a recursion loop or excessive logging.” reads the security advisory published by the ISC.
“Deliberate exploitation of this condition could cause operational problems depending on the particular manifestation — either degradation or denial of service.” 
The flaw affects BIND 9.12.0 and 9.12.1 which permit recursion to clients and which have the max-stale-ttl parameter set to a non-zero value are at risk.
The Internet Systems Consortium (ISC) has addressed the flaw with the release of BIND 9.12.1-P2. Below the workaround provided by the organization:

The second flaw tracked as CVE-2018-5736 is remotely exploitable if the attacker can trigger a zone transfer.
“An error in zone database reference counting can lead to an assertion failure if a server which is running an affected version of BIND attempts several transfers of a slave zone in quick succession,” states the advisory published by the ISC. 
“This defect could be deliberately exercised by an attacker who is permitted to cause a vulnerable server to initiate zone transfers (for example: by sending valid NOTIFY messages), causing the named process to exit after failing the assertion test.”
The CVE-2018-5736 flaw affects BIND 9.12.0 and 9.12.1, the ISC addressed it with the release of the version 9.12.1-P1. Experts noticed that admins need to update to version 9.12.1-P2 because version 9.12.1-P1 was affected by a problem.
This is the third time that the ISC provides security updates for BIND software this year. The first updates were released in January to address a high severity vulnerability that could cause DNS servers crash,
The second updates were released in February to address remotely exploitable vulnerabilities in DHCP.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – BIND DNS software, DoS)


