
					ADB.Miner, the Android mining botnet that targets devices with ADB interface open					
Security researchers at Qihoo 360’s Netlab have spotted a new Android mining botnet over the weekend. The malicious code ADB.Miner targets Android devices by scanning for open ADB debugging interface (port 5555) and infects them with a Monero cryptocurrency miner.
The port 5555 is the working port ADB debug interface on Android device that should be shut down normally. The devices infected by ADB.miner are devices where users or vendors have voluntary enabled the debugging port 5555.
“Spread of time : the earliest time of infection can be traced back to near January 31. This current wave of helminthic infections has been detected by our system from around 15:00 on the afternoon of 2018-02-03 and is still on the rise.” reads the analysis published by Netlab.
“Infected port : 5555, is the working port adb debug interface on Android device, the port should be shut down normally, but unknown part of the cause led to the wrong port opened.”
Starting from February 3, the expert noticed a rapid growth of the volume of scan traffic on port 5555 associated with the ADB.Miner:

Once the ADB.Miner has infected a device, the compromised system start scanning the Internet for other devices to infect.
According to the experts, ADB.miner borrowed the scanning code implemented by the Mirai botnet, this is the first time that the Mirai code is used by an Android threat.
The researchers did not reveal the way the malware infects the Android devices, it is likely it exploits a flaw in the ADB interface.
The number of infected devices is rapidly growing, according to different caliber statistics, there are 2.75 ~ 5.5k, and this figure is rapidly growing.
The two sources reported by Netlab are:
At the time of writing the number of ADB.miner scans reached 75,900 unique IP addresses.

Most IP addresses scanning the port 5555 are located in China (~40%) and South Korea (~30%).
The operators of the botnet are using the following Monero wallet address:
That still has not received the first payment for the mine.
Pierluigi Paganini 
(Security Affairs – Monero, ADB.Miner)
