
					Pirate Bay visitors infected with Cerber ransomware via bad ads					
Recently the visitors of the Pirate Bay website were infected with crypto-ransomware.  Threat actors launched a malvertising attack on Pirate Bay and leveraged on bad ads to serve a ransomware.
According to the experts at Malwarebytes attackers used the Magnitude exploit kit and exploited the Cerber ransomware subscription service. The experts recognized the same modus operandi used in multiple Magnitude EK malvertising campaigns detected in the past.

The attack on Pirate Bay users relied on a ‘pop-under’ window to silently redirect visitors to the a website hosting the Magnitude exploit kit.
“The questionable advertiser was using a ‘pop-under’ to silently redirect users to the Magnitude exploit kit and infect them with the Cerber ransomware.” states the analysis published by Malwarebytes.
“This is part of the same Magnitude EK malvertising campaigns we have documented previously on this blog. The ad network changes (Traffic Holder in this case), but the modus operandi remains the same.”
The threat actors behind the Pirate Bay attack also targeted visitors of a number of porn and torrent websites.
The malvertising campaigns analyzed by experts at MalwareBytes exploited Adobe Flash Player vulnerabilities in order to infect users with vulnerable browsers.Magnitude EK recently showed some signs of additional refinements, first with the
“Magnitude EK recently showed some signs of additional refinements, first with the implementation of a fingerprinting gate before the exploit kit landing page as well as the integration of a new Adobe Flash Player zero-day, albeit not fully taken advantage of.” states a previous analysis published by the security firm.
The attack scheme is simple, attackers serve malicious ads compromising third-party ad networks, in this way they distribute the ads to high-traffic websites.
The researchers also noticed that the timing of the attacks is not casual, they targeted a number of torrent sites due to a huge spike in BitTorrent activity caused by users searching for the sixth season of Games of Thrones.
The Pirate Bay visitors infected with Cerber ransomware are asked to pay 1.25 bitcoin within the first seven days and after that 2.48 bitcoin.
Unfortunately, at the time I was writing there is no decryption tool for the files locked by the Cerber threat.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Pirate Bay, malvertising)
