
					PCI DSS 3.1 and SSLv3: It’s best time to remove the 20 year old SSL protocol					
 “The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) has identified the Secure Socket Layers (SSL) v3.0 protocol as no longer being acceptable for protection of data due to inherent weaknesses within the protocol. Because of these weaknesses, no version of SSL meets PCI SSC’s definition of ‘strong cryptography,’ and revisions to the PCI Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) and the Payment Application Data Security Standard (PA-DSS) are necessary” PCI SSC says.
The Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council (PCI SSC), which manages the standards has released PCI DSS 3.1 during April 2015. PCI DSS – Payment card industry Data Security Standard was formed during December 2004. Usually, Changes are made to the standards every three years, based on feedback from the Council’s global constituents per the PCI DSS and PA-DSS development lifecycle and in response to market needs.
Why PCI DSS v3.1?
Version 3.0 only took full effect from 1st January 2015, but in response to damaging vulnerabilities such as Heartbleed, Beast and POODLE, which take advantage of security holes in the SSL protocol, PCI SSC has decided to release the first version of PCI DSS 3.0. This version 3.1 will no longer consider SSL or early versions of TLS as strong cryptography, per requirement 2.3 and 4.1 when protecting cardholder data. This applies to the associated sections of PA-DSS as well.
Most SSL/TLS deployments support both SSL 3.0 and TLS 1.0 in their default configuration. Newer software may support SSL 3.0, TLS 1.0, TLS 1.1 and TLS 1.2. In these cases the software simply needs to be reconfigured. Older software may only support SSL 2.0 and SSL 3.0, in this case upgrading is the only option.
20 year old SSL 3.0
SSL v3.0 was defined in the year 1996. It is superseded by TLS protocol in 1999. As of 2014, the 3.0 version of SSL is considered insecure due to multiple vulnerabilities and weaknesses that were identified at the time. With the advent of POODLE (“Padding Oracle On Downgraded Legacy Encryption”), SSL 3.0 is quickly becoming deprecated.
Heartbleed vulnerability was a flaw in OpenSSL library, POODLE and BEAST are a browser based attacks which take advantage of flaw in the SSL 3.0 protocol itself, so it cannot be fixed with a software patch. Upgrading to the recent version of TLS is the best known way to remediate these vulnerabilities.
 
SSL/TLS is the most widely deployed encryption protocol. It is used in almost every application to ensure confidentiality whenever we need to transmit sensitive information.

The most common use of SSL/TLS is to secure websites (HTTPS), though it is also used to:
What does the standard recommend?
To address the risk, PCI DSS 3.1 updates requirements 2.2.3, 2.3 and 4.1 to remove SSL and early TLS as examples of strong cryptography.
This gives organizations a very generous window to address this issue, which some organizations may require to address appliances, embedded systems, or large inventories of point-of-sale (POS) devices, which may take considerable time and effort to replace.
Depending on the software tools that is used within the business, one should either upgrade or reconfigure the software to run higher versions of TLS protocol
Edited by Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  APT, cyber espionage)
