
					Hacker Interviews – The Riddler, the founder of the BinarySec Group					
Enjoy the Interview.

You are a popular talented hacker that has already participated in several hacking campaigns, could you tell me more about. Could you tell me which his your technical background and when you started hacking? 
All of our members come from many different backgrounds. A few of our members are just an “average joe” who’s picked up hacking in their spare time, while other members actually do security and Hacking for a living.
Which is the technical background of your members? 
My background is in IT, I started hacking about 8 years ago and my motivation was actually looking at a website and thinking. How can I make this work for me without the owner knowing…
What was your greatest hacking challenge? 
My greatest hacking challenge was about 4 years ago when I launched a hacking campaign called OpBangladesh with some old hacking buddies. We targeted Bangladeshi websites and proceeded to hack and deface them, By the time the campaign was over. 20+ Bangladeshi government websites were defaced and shelled.
What are the 4 tools that cannot be missed in the hacker’s arsenal and why?
The 4 tools a hacker absolutely needs aren’t actually tools at all, They are Curiosity, Willingness to learn, Perseverance, and A unique way of thinking, these 4 things can actually make or break any hacker.
Which are the most interesting hacking communities on the web today, why?
As for me specifically I couldn’t tell you about hacking communities because they have really diminished.
Did you participate in hacking attacks against the IS propaganda online? When? How? Where do you find IS people to hack? How do you choose your targets? 
I personally did participate in the attacks against the IS Propaganda online and so did many of our members. We’ve been and still currently taking down and removing their propaganda . As for the IS people we hack, We carefully check each and any suspicious person or submission to our website. If they are ruled to be an IS member or some other form of a Terrorist Organization, We attack accordingly. We exhaust every resource possible in efforts to shut down ISIS propaganda and recruitment online. I personally do believe that cyber attacks can cause a huge risk to critical infrastructure .
We often hear about cyber weapons and cyber attacks against critical infrastructure. Do you believe it is real the risk of a major and lethal cyber attack against a critical infrastructure? 
I personally do believe that cyber attacks can cause a huge risk to critical infrastructure .
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – BinarySec, hacking)
