
					Member of the ‘Crackas With Attitude’ who hacked US intel officials has been sentenced to 5 years in jail					
A member of the dreaded hacking crew Crackas With Attitude has been sentenced to five years in federal prison.
“Justin G. Liverman, aka “D3F4ULT”, 25, of Morehead City, pleaded guilty on January 6. Liverman admitted to being a member of a conspiracy that called itself “Crackas With Attitude” to commit unauthorized computer intrusions, identity theft, and telephone harassment.” reads the press release published by DoJ.
“According to the statement of facts filed with the plea agreement, beginning in November 2015, Liverman conspired to attempt to intimidate and harass U.S. officials and their families by gaining unauthorized access to victims’ online accounts, among other things.”
Justin Gray Liverman (24) was identified and arrested in September 2016 along with Andrew Otto Boggs (22), of North Wilkesboro, N.C.
Crackas with Attitude made the headlines due to the hack against the senior officials at the CIA, FBI, the White House, Homeland Security Department, and other US federal agencies.
In October 2015 the group violated the CIA Director’s personal email account and leaked sensitive files including a top-secret application for a security clearance. In January 2016, a hacker associated with the Crackas With Attitude group has accessed accounts belonging to the director of National Intelligence, James Clapper. The group also broke into the AOL email of the FBI Deputy Director Mark Giuliano.
“Liverman publicly posted online documents and personal information unlawfully obtained from a victim’s personal account; sent threatening text messages to the same victim’s cellphone; and paid an unlawful ‘phonebombing‘ service to call the victim repeatedly with a threatening message,” explained the U.S. prosecutors in the Eastern District Court of Virginia.
The conspiracy targeted more than 10 victims and caused more than $1.5 million in losses to them.
The leaders of the Crackas With Attitude, a 17-year-old British teenager known as CRACKA, is prosecuted in the United Kingdom.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Crackas With Attitude, hacking)
