
					Nissan Finance Canada hacked, 1.13 million customers may have been exposed					
Nissan Finance Canada has been hacked, personal information of 1.13 million customers may have been exposed as a result of a data breach discovered by the company on December 11 (The biz took 10 days to disclose the incident).
The company notified customers via email the incident, it confirmed that its systems were compromised, with “unauthorized person(s) gaining access to the personal information of some customers that have financed their vehicles through Nissan Canada Finance or Infiniti Financial Services Canada.”
“We apologize for any frustration and anxiety this may cause our customers, and we thank you for your patience and support as we work through this issue.” 
Nissan published a quite similar message on its website too, it added that at this time, there is no indication that customers who financed vehicles outside of Canada are affected. According to Nissan Canada, compromised data includes customer names, addresses, vehicle makes and models, vehicle identification numbers (VINs), credit scores, loan amounts and monthly payment figures.
Financial information belonging to the customers, such as payment card data was not affected.
“Nissan Canada Finance (NCF) is notifying its customers in Canada that it is a victim of a data breach that may have involved unauthorized person(s) gaining access to the personal information of some customers that have financed their vehicles through Nissan Canada Finance and INFINITI Financial Services Canada.” states the message published on the company website.
“On December 11, 2017, NCF became aware of unauthorized access to personal information.” “While the precise number of customers affected by the data breach is not yet known, NCF is contacting all of our current and past customers – approximately 1.13 million customers – who have financed their vehicles through Nissan Canada Finance and INFINITI Financial Services Canada.”

The company is investigating the attack with the help of law enforcement trying to figure out the extension of the incident and potential impact on its customers.
“We are still investigating precisely what personal information has been impacted,” the company added.
Nissan is offering 12 months of credit monitoring services through TransUnion at no cost.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Nissan Finance Canada, data breach)
