
					Unsecured AWS S3 bucket managed by Walmart jewelry partner exposes data of 1.3M customers					
A new case of an Amazon S3 bucket left open online, this time personal data belonging to 1.3 million customers of Walmart jewelry partner MBM Company have been exposed.
Experts at Kromtech Security discovered in February an Amazon S3 bucket named “walmartsql”  containing an MSSQL database backup, named MBMWEB_backup_2018_01_13_003008_2864410.bak. The name suggests that the backup may have been public since January 13, 2018, some of the records included in the archive are dated back 2000.
The archive contained names, addresses, zip codes, phone numbers, e-mail addresses, IP addresses, and, most also plain text passwords of MBM Company. The archive contained internal MBM mailing lists, encrypted credit card details, payment details, promo codes, and item orders.
“On February 6th, 2018 researchers at Kromtech security came across another publicly accessible Amazon s3 bucket.  This one contained a MSSQL database backup, which was found to hold the personal information, including names, addresses, zip codes, phone numbers, e-mail addresses, ip addresses, and, most shockingly, plain text passwords, for shopping accounts of over 1.3 million people (1,314,193 to be exact) throughout the US and Canada.” reads a blog post published by Kromtech.
“At first glance the data appeared to belong to Walmart as the storage bucket was named ‘walmartsql’, but upon further investigation by Kromtech researchers it was discovered that the MSSQL database backup inside actually belonged to MBM Company Inc., a jewelry company based in Chicago, IL, which operates mainly under the name  Limogés Jewelry.”

This is another case of poor security, the IT staff that was managing the archive left the backup exposed online through an unsecured Amazon S3 bucket, and they did not adopt any further measure to protect information stored in the database.
“Passwords were stored in the plain text, which is great negligence, taking into account the problem with many users re-using passwords for multiple accounts, including email accounts.” said Bob Diachenko, head of communications for Kromtech.
Kromtech experts notified Walmart of the public Amazon S3 bucket, the company promptly secured the storage bucket but was unable to comment on MBM Company Inc.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Walmart jewelry partner MBM Company Inc, data leak)
