
					The Fappening 3, other nude celebrity photos leaked					
The Fappening is now in its third episode and the celebrities are naked again. The Fappening seems to be never ending story, a new archive of nude celebrity photos has been leaked online.
The “The Fappening 3” contains new naked photos of Jennifer Lawrence and private shots of the top model Cara Delevingne and the actress Anna Kendrick.
Also in this case the naked celebrity photos have apparently been leaked online, the new archive was leaked on Friday, the archive is named “The Fappening 3” and also in this case the disclosure happened through subreddits and 4chan communities.
Let’s remind that the data leakage began in August when the pictures of 101 celebrities were disclosed and has continued with a second archive that contains photos of other illustrious celebrities, including Kim Kardashian, the actress Vanessa Hudgens, the US national women’s soccer team player Hope Solo, Mary-Kate Olsen, Avril Lavigne, Hayden Panettiere, Lake Bell, Leelee Sobieski and former Disney stars Aly and AJ Michalka.
According to Apple the its iCloud service wasn’t breached exploiting an iCloud vulnerability disclosed online recently, Apple’s CEO, Tim Cook, confirmed that that celebs were either victims of phishing attacks or had had their iCloud account hijacked because of threat actors had guessed the security questions in an effort to obtain credentials.
Anyway, Apple also expanded the use of two-step verification to increase the security of the iCloud accounts.
“After more than 40 hours of investigation, we have discovered that certain celebrity accounts were compromised by a very targeted attack on user names, passwords and security questions, a practice that has become all too common on the Internet. None of the cases we have investigated has resulted from any breach in any of Apple’s systems including iCloud or Find my iPhone. We are continuing to work with law enforcement to help identify the criminals involved.” states an official announcement issued by Apple.
The leaked collection includes a video of Aubrey Plaza and previously unreleased nude photographs of celebrities, such as Jennifer Lawrence and Kaley Cuoco.
Tha Fappening 3 includes 55 more nude photos of Jennifer Lawrence and other celebrities, including American Olympic gold medalist Misty May Treanor and actresses Alexandra Chando, Kelli Garner and Lauren O’Neil.
Jennifer Lawrence immediately contacted the FBI, which is investigating on the case:
“This is a flagrant violation of privacy,” Lawrence’s publicist Liz Mahoney wrote in a statement. “The authorities have been contacted and will prosecute anyone who posts the stolen photos of Jennifer Lawrence.”
Apple is anyway considered by some security experts responsible for the data leakage due to a superficial approach to the security of its iCloud accounts, according to the Daily Dot the company was aware of a serious flaw in its iCloud since March 2014.
“Apple knew as early as March 2014 of a security hole that left the personal data of iCloud users vulnerable, according to leaked emails between the company and a noted security researcher.
The emails, obtained earlier this month by the Daily Dot and reviewed by multiple security experts, show Ibrahim Balic, a London-based software developer, informing Apple of a method he’d discovered for infiltrating iCloud accounts. ” states a blog post published by the Daily Dot on the Fappening case.

“In a March 26 email, Balic tells an Apple official that he’s successfully bypassed a security feature designed to prevent “brute-force” attacks—a method used by hackers to crack passwords by exhaustively trying thousands of key combinations.” continues the post.
The reply from Apple is anyway questionable, below the image reported in the article.

Resuming, Apple was alerted in March on the security issue …. but now we are reading of The Fappening 3, whatever the source would be it is likely that other photos will be released in the next weeks.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – The Fappening 3, Apple iCloud)
