
					New updates on Cyber Conflict Agenda 2016 and what’s new in ‘Cyber power’					
The 8th International Conference on Cyber Conflict (CyCon 2016) will be held in Tallinn, Estonia from 31st of May to 3th of June next year, in order to discuss the importance of  ‘cyber power’. Today, governments, the private sector, international organizations and civil society are looking to debate more about cyberspace arena.
In fact, this occasion as part of geopolitics players has a big protagonism to define what is going to happen with the traditional concept of ‘power’ and what are new trends on cyber governance to define a global mandate in Internet. From one side, ‘hard power’ as a traditional legal aspect to be deployed from governments without any substantiality until today’s, by trying to recognize the Internet as a decentralize global network. This remark doesn’t mean that global actors are not been able to contribute on harmonization of cyber conflict world-wide. Then, ‘soft power’ will be an alternative on cyberspace as a short-term action to give more arguments on thinkers and contributors towards to enhance strategic and political goals through technical, legal and economic means.
In this context, ‘cyber power’ is more political than any time before. It means that questions and remarks will be rising hands of cybernauts to proclam on high voice, how can governments ensure on enforcing ‘cyber power’ without risking conflict escalation?
If global citizens are not informed on new trends of cyber conflict, there is possible to experiment permanent cyber social protest movements and new global actions from cybernauts to demand establishment of a cyber-democracy.
Last 9th September, Anti-Virus Pioneer John McAfee entered US Presidential Race with “Cyber Party”. This demonstration was a good example of how cyber leaders are thinking more a more about ‘cyber power’. In fact, McAfee has decided to create his own party, in order to give more legitimacy to cyber democracy. Therefore, McAfee is convinced to transform cyberspace on a decentralize global network where human rights of cyber citizens must be respected, focusing on online privacy and domestic surveillance.
Finally, ‘cyber power’ is facing new updates as a potential geopolitics’ player. CyCon 2016 is a brilliant scenario to discuss what is the future of ‘cyber power’?. Which one is moving ahead ‘hard power’ or ‘soft power’ inside of today’s democracies to guarantee respect on online privacy and domestic surveillance?
Just quoting, what John McAfee said to CNN last 8th of September.

“We are losing privacy at an alarming rate — we have none left,” McAfee told the network. “We’ve given up so much for the illusion of security and our government is simply dysfunctional. The government can spy on people using their mobile phones while they’re with their wives and husbands.”
Is possible to maintain a balance of power in cyberspace?
About the Author Francisco Javier Delgado Villarreal
Francisco Javier Delgado Villarreal is a Junior Business Continuity, Cybersecurity and Internet Governance Consultant. His professional experience in Information and Communication Technologies has been developed since 2009 in different arenas, such as International Organizations, Governments and private sector in Ecuador and abroad.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  cyberspace, Cyber Conflict)
