
					Here’s how Hacking Team was selling products as RCS					
400 GB data library revealed that the hacked Italian surveillance firm “Hacking Team” used to sell its RCS via a reseller network over the globe. Major resellers are located in America, Latin America, UAE, Israel and their own hometown Italy. 
Due to rising demand of hacking and surveillance software worldwide, many security agencies and firms get into the business of reselling the hacking and surveillance software to earn a good share from the sale. Reselling is also beneficial for the Hacking products seller firm itself as it generates income at one side and makes it easier to hide their practices on the other side.
Hacking Team’s designed Remote Control System (RCS) got popularity in early 2010. To earn from reseller network, an Italian based security firm “RESI Informatica” comes into action. This firm seems to be the earliest reseller of the RCS and introduced the hacking system to one of the biggest ISP in Tunisia.
One of the biggest partners of reseller network is Israel based security firm “NICE Systems”. NICE earns about half million US Dollars in one year from reselling Hacking Teams’ Spyware software. NICE sold the RCS to Asian, African, Middle East and European countries, including Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, Kuwait, Bahrain, India, Israel and Georgia.

Another giant partner in reseller network is the US based multinational company. Namely AECOM, made a tremendous profit by reselling the RCS through itself and its two subsidiaries;“Technology Control” and “Yes Solutions”. It is proved by the emails in 400 GB Big Box that ACEOM is engaged in the business of selling Hacking Team’s Products and earn more than 19 million US Dollars from this.
Yet anotherbig reseller partner is Cyberpoint International, US based surveillance firm.  CyberpointInternational is said to be successful in selling RCS in UAE and Middle East.
The updated client list of the Hacking Team shows that there are many active subscriptions that are still present and many countries are paying the amount annually. The reseller network is not only based on companies or firms, it also includes individual partners, dealers and contractors.
Written by: Ali Qamar, Founder/Chief Editor at SecurityGladiators.com
Author Bio:
Ali Qamar is an Internet security research enthusiast who enjoys “deep” research to dig out modern discoveries in the security industry. He is the founder and chief editor at Security Gladiators, an ultimate source for cyber security. To be frank and honest, Ali started working online as a freelancer and still shares the knowledge for a living. He is passionate about sharing the knowledge with people, and always try to give only the best. Follow Ali on Twitter @AliQammar57
 Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Hacking Team,  RCS)
 
