
					Hacker Interviews – Zilla from GhostSquadHackers					
Zilla is another member of the #GhostSquadHackers, one of the hacker crews most active against IS propaganda online.

You are a popular talented hacker that has already participated in several hacking campaigns, could you tell me more about.
Well, I have taken part in a few operations such as OpIcarus, OpReverseCaliphate which is targeting ISIS And more recently OpTurkey.
Could you tell me which his your technical background and when you started hacking? Which are your motivations?
I started with an interest in hacking around 2012, I always wondered how hackers did the amazing things they did. I’m motivated by the drive to always be better at what I do and some of the operations I take part in have a certain meaning to me.
What was your greatest hacking challenge? Which was your latest hack? Can you describe me it?
My greatest challenge was probably staying focused during operations and never giving up until I achieved what I was trying to achieve. My latest hack involved hacking into an ISIS websites Database and finding a list of ISIS supporters names and emails.
What are the 4 tools that cannot be missed in the hacker’s arsenal and why?
I think it’s all about the way you use those tools and the hacker behind the tools. some type of DDos tool would be helpful. I think Kali Linux is another great tool as well. And hopefully, you should have some tools that you coded.
Which are the most interesting hacking communities on the web today, why?
There are a lot of interesting hacking communities on the web, but I think a good one is the well-known Hack Forums because it has a large community with a lot of helpful information.
Did you participate in hacking attacks against the IS propaganda online? When? How?
Yes, I have done most of my work in my career targeting ISIS, I have taken down a ton of websites and built lists of ISIS members and supporters.
Where do you find IS people to hack? How do you choose your targets?
It’s not very hard to find ISIS people online, on social media once you find one you can look through followers, following, and likes to find many more. I target anyone who supports ISIS in any way.
We often hear about cyber weapons and cyber attacks against critical infrastructure. Do you believe it is real the risk of a major and lethal cyber attack against a critical infrastructure?
Yes, I believe every system has some type of Vulnerability and is subject to some type of lethal cyber attack.
Thanks a lot!
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  Hacker, Zilla)
