
					Hacker Interviews – C aka @NotCracka					
Enjoy the Interview.

Could you tell me which his your technical background and when you started hacking? 
The unique technical background I have is related my participation to the Anonops IRC where people teach me about advanced web attacks, including the DDoS. I am also a student of the infamous Lizard Squad hacker Vinnie Omari who actually hacked his own University because they kicked him out for being too advanced for them.
What was your greatest hacking challenge? Which was your latest hack? Can you describe me it?
My biggest hacking challenge would be when me, and 6 of my friends, all registered vdos accounts and completely shut down google services for around 6 hours.
What are the 4 tools that cannot be missed in the hacker’s arsenal and why?
The 4 tools that cannot be missed in the hackers’ arsenal would probably be SQLMap, every hacker should use that to hack a lot of websites, or if you feel a bit more advanced you should use Havij, but only advanced people should use it because it is more complicated. People should also register for online booters such as vbooter.
Which are the most interesting hacking communities on the web today, why?
I can tell you that many hacking communities today also rely on Twitter. Within the AnonOps IRC it is also possible to find very skilled hackers.
Did you hack the ISIS?
I did not participate in any IS hacks, but my powerful friend Vinnie mOari launched a powerful DDoS attack against them a night while drunk on Christmas. He actually disabled their weapons in Syria with a DDoS attack.
We often hear about cyber weapons and cyber attacks against critical infrastructure. Do you believe it is real the risk of a major and lethal cyber attack against a critical infrastructure?  
Yes, I do believe there is a serious risk for the critical infrastructure, there are people like Ghostsec who attacked Syria’s infrastructure with millions of packets they sent from the US satellites they hacked last year. It is getting crazy knowing we can all die of hypothermia because of somebody advanced like Vinnie Omari can hack the power grid with his skills he got from working at NCA, NATO, Google, GCHQ, and MI6/MI5.
Thanks a lot!
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – hackers, @NotCracka )
