
					Is ICEMAN behind the malware-based attack on Crystal Finance Millennium?					
Iceman gang member confirms that they are behind the introduction and spreading of malware that infected the systems at Crystal Finance Millennium.
In Septemeber security experts at TrendMicro reported that the Ukraine based Account Firm, Crystal Finance Millennium (CFM), has been hacked and is found to be distributing malware.
The incident caused the firm to take down its website to stop spreading the threat.
Crystal Finance Millennium attack (Source Trend Micro)
Marc Miller had a chance to speak to one of the gang members on XMMP and he confirmed that the Iceman group is behind this attack. They started with a simple web attack (SQLI which lead to web shell upload, no privilege escalation was needed) in order to gain access to the web servers of the company.
He confirmed that the math was simple, the Ukrainian company had many clients in the financial and medical sector which facilitated the propagation of their malware. From the archived web page, it becomes apparent they provide accounting software, personalization of medical records, blood service and “full automation of the doctor’s office” – contrary to what their company name suggests, it appears they are (mostly) focused on medical software.
The loader (load.exe file) will, later on, download a Purge ransomware that was modified for that operation by the Iceman group. According to the gang, each target was treated individually to maximize profit. Sometimes they would run a ransomware program and sometimes they would run a banking Trojan. “When you sophisticate your attack, you can drain the sharks” – he said.
An inclusive interview is in the making to unveil the course of this attack. It will be released in the upcoming weeks.

He started a blog called: THE PURPLE HAT – Cyber Gangs NAKED, dedicated to exposing the methods and works of cybercrime gangs such as “CARBANAK” or similar sophisticated syndicated Cybercrime organizations.
In the past. he worked as a web front-end programmer. Also, he is passionate about hardware, hacking, security and marketing.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – ICEMAN, Crystal Finance Millennium)
