
					Hackshit PhaaS platform, even more easy to power Phishing campaigns					
A few days ago, we discussed the Katyusha scanner,a powerful and fully automated SQLi vulnerability scanner discovered by researchers at security firm Recorded Future that was available for $500 in the cyber crime underground.
The Katyusha scanner is just one of the numerous hacking tools and crimeware-as-a-service available in the hacking community.
Today I desire to present you another crimeware-as-a-service that was discovered by the experts from Netskope Threat Research Labs dubbed Hackshit.
The Hackshit is a Phishing-as-a-Service (PhaaS) platform that offers low cost, “automated solution for the beginner scammers,” it allows wannabe crooks to easily launch a phishing campaign.
Dubbed Hackshit, the PhaaS platform attracts new subscribers by offering them free trial accounts to review their limited set of hacking tutorials and tricks to make easy money.
“Netskope Threat Research Labs recently discovered a Phishing-as-a-Service (PhaaS) platform named Hackshit, that records the credentials of the phished bait victims. The phished bait pages are packaged with base64 encoding and served from secure (HTTPS) websites with “.moe” top level domain (TLD) to evade traditional scanners. “.moe” TLD is intended for the purpose of ‘The marketing of products or services deemed’. The victim’s credentials are sent to the Hackshit PhaaS platform via websockets. ” states a blog post published by Netskope.
The researchers discovered the PhaaS platform during a research about the trends of CloudPhishing attacks. They observed a phishing page using data URI scheme to serve base64 encoded content (data:text/html;base64) delivered from “https://a.safe.moe,” accessing the link the researchers were presented a phished login page for Google Docs.
Once the victims have provided their credentials, they presented another phishing page whose source uses a data URI scheme to serve base64 encoded content (data:text/html;base64) again from https://a.safe.moe.
This second phished page was designed to trick victims into providing recovery details of their email account. Once the victim has provided his details, he is redirected to the original Google recovery page.
The experts decoded the two phishing pages and discovered that the credentials are sent to the attacker via a websocket to https://pod[.]logshit[.]com and https://pod-1[.]logshit[.]com.
“Accessing logshit[.]com led us to the discovery of the PhaaS website named Hackshit as shown in Figure 6. Further research concluded the website is serving as a PhaaS platform.” continues the blog post.

Hackshit is a PhaaS platform that offers several phishing services and it also implements a black marketplace to buy and sell such kind of services.
“The marketplace is a portal that offers services to purchase and sell for carrying out the phishing attacks,” Netskope researcher Ashwin Vamshi explained.
“The attacker then generates a phished page from the page/generator link and logs into the email account of the compromised victim, views all the contacts and sends an email embedded with the phished link.”
Crooks can purchase site login accounts of compromised victim from the marketplace using Perfect Money or bitcoins.
Using the Hackshit, subscribers can easily generate their unique phishing pages for many popular services, including Yahoo, Facebook, and Gmail.
Experts also noticed that the Hackshit website uses an SSL certificate issued by the open certificate authority Let’s Encrypt.
Let’s see which is the pricing model behind the PhaaS, Hackshit offers several subscription tiers from Starter to Master, ranging from 40 USD per week to 250 USD for 2 months.
Hackshit demonstrated that crimeware-as-a-service represent a serious risk for businesses and end-users, it is bringing wannabe hackers into the cybercrime arena.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Hackshit, phishing)
