
					Bitdefender Vaccine now supports also CTB-Locker, Locky, TeslaCrypt					
Security experts from the Romanian security vendor Bitdefender have updated their anti-ransomware vaccine in order to protect machines from the latest versions of the CTB-Locker, Locky and TeslaCrypt ransomware.
According data recently published by Fortinet, top ransomware families are CryptoWall, Locky, and TeslaCrypt, while Cryptowall is predominant, Lock is rapidly spreading.

 
The Bitdefender Anti-Ransomware toolkit was developed by the company years ago to help victims of crypto-ransomware to prevent infections.
Some ransomware-decryptors tries to exploit encryption flaws in the ransomware implementation to decrypt files or use encryption keys discovered by law enforcement during their activity.
These conditions are not easy to match, so Bitdefender is promoting the prevention instead the cure by spreading its anti-ransomware vaccine.

The most recent version, 1.0.11.26, includes detection for the latest variant of ransomware in the wild, including CTB-Locker, Locky and TeslaCrypt.
These three ransomware had a different evolution in the last weeks, Locky for example is rapidly spreading meanwhile a new strain of TeslaCrypt appeared in the wild, the version 4.0 with implements significant improvements.
We have no news regarding the CTB-Locker, in fact, there are no new infections in the wild.
“Bitdefender anti-malware researchers have released a new vaccine tool which can protect against known and possible future versions of the CTB-Locker, Locky and TeslaCrypt crypto ransomware families.” state the announcement published by BitDefender.
“The new tool is an outgrowth of the Cryptowall vaccine program, in a way.” Chief Security Strategist Catalin Cosoi explained. “We had been looking at ways to prevent this ransomware from encrypting files even on computers that were not protected by Bitdefender antivirus and we realized we could extend the idea.”
Download the Bitdefender Anti-ransomware vaccine from the company website.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Bitdefender Anti-ransomware vaccine, ransomware)
