
					ECIPS Issues Extensive Security Border Alert for ISIS Infiltration					
The ECIPS President Baretzky said that this warrants an immediate alert to border police to bring awareness throughout the EU and its allies in contagement to the risks associated with this decision. President Baretzky said that Borders are not adequately protected and ISIS will exploit new ways to infiltrate the states of the EU and US.
Should ISIS play the “The Trojan Horse” as it may, then this could be a huge vulnerability according to ECIPS and it could lead to more aggression and retaliation of ISIS. The main problems surrounding the ideologies of ISIS is that it has not been here for decades but for centuries and it’s a psychological warfare long in advanced stages. A kind of cancer that needs to be rooted out according to some experts.
According to the ECIPS there could be as much as 5000 Europeans involved in fighting with ISIS and as much as several hundred US citizens. President Baretzky said that the dogma of Obama’s statement “ It will not involve American combat troops fighting on foreign soil,” is vastly underestimated and urged their departments to do proper homework before assuming that ISIS will be under control.

The Belgium Jewish Museum Shooter incident of May this year in Belgium is one example of the pre-staging of ISIS. ECIPS warned on numerous occasions that this incident has deeper tentacles, and as it turned out, the Belgium Jewish Museum Shooter was a ‘ISIS Torturer’ in Syria as revealed by media recently.
The President of ECIPS, Ricardo Baretzky said that.
“We need to step up security now at Borders, before it’s too late. A proper ID control and a ISIS database is vital for the security of Europe passport control offices. “
Obama risks trying to solve a fundamentally political problem by military means will only escalate some predicts. The problem at present is that nobody really knows how many ISIS members there are within the EU or the USA. The number could be in the thousands.
President Baretzky said the danger with this “Obama methods” are that one cannot kill a believe with fire and ammunition. The problem with ISIS is that it is based on a religious ideology and perception of how the world should look like rather than a methodology of violence and war.
“Thus we have to be logical and tackle these problems by its roots rather than coming to hastily conclusions of how to react, if not then it could in fact perpetuate the problem rather than changing it, Baretzky said.
Exclusive for Border Police Magazine BORDERPOL

