
					Google is a ‘Partially Dangerous’ Website … According to Google					
According to Google’s online transparency report, Google’s main search engine is a “partially dangerous” website. The company has advised that people should exercise caution when using it. The search engine could attempt to steal the personal information of its users or install malware on their computers.
The transparency report details how safe and private websites are and exposes those that are deemed potentially dangerous. In an awkward turn of events, that now includes Google itself, which apparently contains pages that have “deceptive content.”
Some pages on the domain reportedly install malware, steal personal information from their users and redirect users to other suspicious websites.
“Google is a “partially dangerous” website and people should be careful when using it, Google has warned. The site’s main search engine could try and steal the personal information of its users or install malware on their computers, according to Google’s unusually frank assessment of itself.” states the Independent.
“The warning comes as part of Google’s own online transparency report, which lists reports on how private and safe websites are – and calls out those that are potentially dangerous.”

“Users sometimes post bad content on websites that are normally safe,” a warning that shows on every potentially dangerous website reads. “Safe Browsing will update the safety status once the webmaster has cleaned up the bad content.” continues The Independent.
The company advises affected websites to head to its “Webmasters Help for Hacked Sites” page. That details the ways that Google can clean itself up, at which point it can ask for its status to be reviewed – by itself.”
Written by: Sneacker 
Author Bio: Sneacker is a writer who works in the information technology field. She is a member of GhostSec, a counterterrorism unit within the Anonymous collective, and participant in #OpISIS.
Edited by Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  cyber threats, cybersecurity)
