
					Experts are observing Drupalgeddon2 (CVE-2018-7600) attacks in the wild					
At the end of March, the Drupal Security Team confirmed that a “highly critical” vulnerability (dubbed Drupalgeddon2), tracked as CVE-2018-7600, was affecting Drupal 7 and 8 core and announced the availability of security updates on March 28th.
The vulnerability was discovered by the Drupal developers Jasper Mattsson.
Both Drupal 8.3.x and 8.4.x are no more supported, but due to the severity of the flaw, the Drupal Security Team decided to address it with specific security updates and experts called it Drupalgeddon2.
Drupal development team released the security update in time to address CVE-2018-7600.
After the publication of a working Proof-Of-Concept for Drupalgeddon2 on GitHub for “educational or information purposes,” experts started observing bad actors attempting to exploit the flaw.

A week after the release of the security update, the experts at security firm Check Point along with Drupal experts at Dofinity analyzed the CMS to analyzed the Drupalgeddon2 vulnerability and published a technical report on the flaw.
After the publication of the report. the expert Vitalii Rudnykh shared a working  Proof-Of-Concept for Drupalgeddon2 on GitHub for “educational or information purposes.”
Immediately after the disclosure of the PoC, security experts started observing bad actors attempting to exploit the flaw.
Over the weekend, several security firms observed threat actors have started exploiting the flaw to install malware on the vulnerable websites, mainly cryptocurrency miners.
The experts at the SANS Internet Storm Center reported several attacks delivering a cryptocurrency miner, a PHP backdoor, and an IRC bot written in Perl.
“Pretty much as soon as the exploit became publicly available, our honeypots started seeing attacks that used the exploit.” reads the analysis published by the SANS.
“Ever since then, we are seeing waves of exploit attempts hitting our honeypots.”
A thread on SANS ISC Infosec forums confirms that attackers are exploiting the Drupalgeddon2 flaw to install the XMRig Monero miner. Attackers also use to drop and execute other payloads, including a script to kill competing miners on the infected system.
According to the analysis published by experts at security firm Volexity, threat actors are exploiting the Drupalgeddon2 flaw to deliver malicious scripts cryptocurrency miners and backdoors.
The experts associated one of the observed campaigns aimed to deliver XMRig with a cybercriminal gang that exploited the vulnerability (CVE-2017-10271) in Oracle WebLogic servers to deliver cryptocurrency miners in late 2017.
According to security experts at Imperva, 90% of the Drupalgeddon2 attacks are scanning activities, 3% are backdoor infection attempts, and 2% are attempting to run drop cryptocurrency miners on the vulnerable systems.
“To this point, we have seen 90% of the attack attempts are scanners, 3% are backdoor infection attempts, and 2% are attempts to run crypto miners on the targets.” states the analysis published Imperva.
“Also, most of the attacks originated from the US (53%) and China (45%) “

While experts speculate that the number of attacks could continue to increase in the next weeks, site admins must update their CMS to Drupal 7.58 or Drupal 8.5.1.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Drupal, Drupalgeddon2)
