
					A Facebook glitch declared all its users are dead, including Zuckerberg					
Funny as it is disturbing, but the technology can also do this and this time it has happened to Facebook. This night the Tech giant declared everyone dead due to a glitch.
The memorial feature was implemented by Facebook in 2015 to allow families access their loved ones’ social accounts after the death.
This glitch was first discovered by the employees at the Business Insider.
“A Facebook bug is displaying people as having died when visiting their profile page.” reads the post published by the Business Insider.
“Multiple Business Insider employees reported seeing the message at the top of their Facebook profiles on Friday, and the bug appears to also be affecting Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg.”
On Friday afternoon, users who logged on to their accounts discovered that their accounts turned to a “memorialized account,” due to their alleged death.

Of course, the platform considered also the CEO Mark Zuckerberg as dead.
“We hope people who love Mark will find comfort in the things others share to remember and celebrate his life.”  reads a statement on the Mark Zuckerberg’s profile.
Now imagine the impact on the visitors of the FB pages of their friends or popular individuals.
The colleagues at THN reached out to the company for an explanation:
“For a brief period today, a message meant for memorialized profiles was mistakenly posted to other accounts. This was a terrible error that we have now fixed. We are very sorry that this happened and we worked as quickly as possible to fix it.” a Facebook spokesperson told THN.
But Facebook is magic, and he has given us new life once it has solved the problem.
We resurrected!
Let’s remind that users can opt to have their account completely delete after their death or turn into a memorial page. The page allows friends and families to leave messages and share memories on their profile.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – social network, hacking)
