
					Black Friday and Cyber Monday, Keep Yourself Safe					
Black Friday is here and so is Cyber Monday, with all the special seasonal offers that many consumers are craving! However, it seems that these are the days for which hackers have been preparing themselves all this time.
Unfortunately, there are more sophisticated threats that we should all beware of, as hackers have been gathering their strengths and are ready to unleash their wrath. Does this mean that we are better off abstaining from all purchases? Well, with the bargains that can be found online, good luck with your efforts to do that!
The Retail Cyber Intelligence Sharing Center has tried to inform people on the imminent risks that are piling up, when it comes to cyber threats on these days. In fact, they have published a report on what needs to be done on behalf of all consumers, in avoidance of negative consequences related to seasonal sales. It is worth reading through the report and find out why hackers understand the risks and how they overcome them, so as to get their hands on your money.

It is true that retailers have got their plates full and this means that they do not pay as much attention as they should be to preventive measures. As a result, hackers are left alone and they do what they know best – which is to intercept personal information and steal money online! ThreatMetrix has found an increase of 25% in the frauds prior to the holiday season.
What needs to be done, in order to avoid being compromised on Black Friday and Cyber Monday? Well, luckily things are not that devastating, assuming that you are vigilant. Here is what you should be focusing on, so that you can enjoy the holiday season and buy the things that you have been waiting for, without being tricked by anyone:
Enjoy Black Friday and Cyber Monday, taking full advantage of their special, limited offers for the holidays! Do so with absolute safety, though, since this is the best way to be jolly all-year-round!
References:
https://www.europol.europa.eu/content/publication/be-smart-your-card-tips-advice-stop-payment-card-fraud-happening-you-1419
http://securitygladiators.com/2015/11/24/avoid-online-scams-cyber-monday-black-friday-easy-way/
http://www.bbc.com/news/technology-34872562S
Written by: Ali Qamar, Founder/Chief Editor at SecurityGladiators.com
Author Bio:
Ali Qamar is an Internet security research enthusiast who enjoys “deep” research to dig out modern discoveries in the security industry. He is the founder and chief editor at Security Gladiators, an ultimate source for cyber security. To be frank and honest, Ali started working online as a freelancer and still shares the knowledge for a living. He is passionate about sharing the knowledge with people, and always try to give only the best. Follow Ali on Twitter @AliQammar57
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Black Friday, cybercrime)
