
					Rail Europe North America hit by payment card data breach					
The website allows users to buy European train tickets, according to the company the data breach lasted at least three months (between November 29, 2017 and February 16, 2018), the incident exposed also customers’ payment card data.
“Rail Europe North America Inc. (“RENA” or “we”) is writing to let you, as a customer of RENA, know about a recent data security incident that may have involved your credit card or debit card information and other personal information” reads the notice sent by the company to its customers.
“On February 16, 2018, as a result of a query from one of our banks, we discovered that beginning on November 29, 2017, through February 16, 2018, unauthorized persons gained unauthorized access to our ecommerce websites’ IT platform. Upon discovery that this malicious intrusion may have compromised users’ personal information, we immediately cut off from the Internet all compromised servers on February 16, 2018, and engaged information security experts to assist with forensic analysis, system restoration and security hardening”
According to the notice of data breach, hackers accessed registered users’ personal information including name, gender, delivery address, invoicing address, telephone number, email address, credit/debit card number, expiration date and CVV of customers, and, in some cases, username and password.

The security breach was discovered after a bank inquiry informed the organization of an attack.
“In this case, however, the hackers were able to affect the front end of the Rail Europe website with ‘skimming’ malware, meaning customers gave payment and other information directly to the hackers through the website,” said Comparitech privacy advocate Paul Bischoff. “While the details haven’t been fully disclosed, the fact that this went on for three months shows a clear lack of security by Rail Europe.”
RENA replaced and rebuilt all compromised systems from known safe code, it also removed any potentially untrusted components. The IT staff changed passwords on all systems and applications, improved security controls and renewed digital certificates.
“RENA has also provided notice to the credit card brands and our credit/debit card transaction processors.” continues the notice.
“In addition, we are offering identity theft protection services through ID Experts®, the data breach and recovery services expert, to provide you with MyIDCare™. MyIDCare services include: 12 months of Credit and CyberScan monitoring, a $1,000,000 insurance reimbursement policy, exclusive educational materials and fully managed id theft recovery services.”
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Rail Europe North America, data breach)


