
					US Government Launching New Cyber Threat Intelligence Integration Center					
US government will create a new center which is going to co-ordinate all the other units that work towards providing a more effective defence against cybercrime. The new center will fill the gaps that currently exist among the services, which lead to delays and miscomprehensions. 
A new agency is on the verge of becoming effective and getting down to business shortly within the United States of America. After the ongoing breaches that have been made public and that have caused grave consequences to the public, Barack Obama cannot just sit idle and watch cybercriminals take over what is left on the internet. Instead, he is using a new mechanism that will work synchronizing all the other agencies and departments in a fruitful manner. Whether this is going to benefit the current situation as it stands or not, nobody can say for sure; it is not an easy question to answer.
The hits have been continuous and hard; Sony and Home Depot, Anthem and a lot of other companies have been compromised, leaving sensitive information from US customers exposed. Though there is progress regarding how these incidents were dealt with, there is a lot of work to be covered till the US can rest and be sure of internet security. This is why the Cyber Threat Intelligence Integration Center (CTIIC) will be formed, in addition to the already active National Counterterrorism Center (NCTC). As it has been stated in the past, a lot of companies were hesitant to inform the authorities after a security breach. With the formation of the new Cyber Threat Intelligence Integration Center, though, hopefully the prominent fear will give its place to certainty and reassurance.

There are people who have expressed their disbelief in the newly-forming Cyber Threat Intelligence Integration Center that will aim to co-ordinate the efforts of every other agency, institution and department working towards the extinction of cyber threats. Some people find it useful or, to put it mildly, ineffective and unnecessary, to begin something from scratch.
If there is a need for doing things better, this can be done from the inside – by changing the way some things are done in the various organizations, institutions, agencies and departments of the US government that deals with cybersecurity as a whole. The adviser of homeland security and counterterrorism, Lisa Monaco, has answered these doubts with a firm statement as to whether or not this new Cyber Threat Intelligence Integration Center is needed and to what extent:cybersecurity as a whole. The adviser of homeland security and counterterrorism, Lisa Monaco, has answered these doubts with a firm statement as to whether or not this new cyber threat center is needed and to what extent:
“Currently, no single government entity is responsible for producing coordinated cyber threat assessments. (The new agency) is intended to fill these gaps.”
Shawn Henry commented on the center that will be ready to launch shortly, characterizing it as:
“a coordination center that takes information from various entities that already exist and to put it together into one kind of easy-to-read format, so that policy leaders will have information at their fingertips so that they can make strategic decisions.” Furthermore, he said: “This is not necessarily an agency that’s going to have actions to take, but to make information readable and accessible…By taking them and integrating all that info into one location, it provides leaders with good valuable information on what the landscape is, what the battlefield looks like.”
Written by: Ali Qamar, Founder/Chief Editor at SecurityGladiators.com
Author Bio:
Ali Qamar is an Internet security research enthusiast who enjoys “deep” research to dig out modern discoveries in the security industry. He is the founder and chief editor at Security Gladiators, an ultimate source for cyber security. To be frank and honest, Ali started working online as a freelancer and still shares the knowledge for a living. He is passionate about sharing the knowledge with people, and always try to give only the best. Follow Ali on Twitter @AliQammar57
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  cybersecurity, US Government)
