
					Adobe Animate CC replaces Adobe Flash, what about security?					
Adobe Flash was developed to improve users’ experience providing a simple environment for the development of applications and games, but the advent of HTML5 has undermined its existence.
We are finding often Adobe Flash in the headlines due to the numerous security issues emerged in the last years, its vulnerabilities are among the most exploited by hackers for cyber attacks.
Adobe is aware of this and has decided that it time to change the route, it is dismissing Adobe Flash Professional CC to introduce a new product, the Adobe Animate CC.
“Today, over a third of all content created in Flash Professional uses HTML5, reaching over one billion devices worldwide. It has also been recognized as an HTML5 ad solution that complies with the latest Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB) standards, and is widely used in the cartoon industry by powerhouse studios likeNickelodeon and Titmouse Inc.
Animate CC will continue supporting Flash (SWF) and AIR formats as first-class citizens. In addition, it can output animations to virtually any format (including SVG), through its extensible architecture.”
Many exponents of the security community fear that the Adobe Animate CC is the result of a marketing operation that would be still insecure.

“The application – mostly looks like an update to the Flash Professional software – will still support Adobe Flash (SWF) and AIR formats ‘as first-class citizens,’ along with other animation and video formats, including HTML5 canvas, 4K and WebGL output.” reported THN.
Adobe Animate CC will be launched in January 2016, it will implement a collection of features, including new vector art brushes, as well as the ability to rotate the canvas 360° from any pivot point.

What about security features of Adobe Animate CC?
The Adobe platform has a new brand, but it probably still relies on a number of the same components used in Adobe Flash.
“Adobe’s strategy is to make money regardless of what happens in the market,” accused Jeffrey Hammonds, principal analyst at Forrester Research. “They understand that there is a slow transition to HTML5 going on.”“At some point you have to embrace the change,” The rebranding is the visible sign of that, but the internal focus on supporting the technologies like HTML5 has been going on a while.”
Stay tuned.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Abobe, Adobe Animate CC)
