
					Were the Recent Arrests in Ohio Part of ISIS ’ Catastrophic Plan for the US?					
Daniels, age 20, who goes by the aliases Harun Muhammad and Abu Yusef, had allegedly “communicated his commitment to violent overseas jihad” in addition to having wired money to an ISIS recruiter and “external attack planner,” according to the Department of Justice.
Daniels is being held without bond. The arrest comes just days after it was reported that ISIS was planning an onslaught of attacks around the world, including quite possibly Chardon, Ohio. Chardon is a town in which BLACKOPS Cyber, a private intelligence company, caught ISIS communications regarding hacking internet surveillance cameras which can assist terrorists not only in carrying out attacks, but in doing so undetected.

Though it is uncertain as to whether the arrest was related to that ISIS plot, Daniels had also allegedly wired money to an intermediary of now-deceased Abu Isa Al-Amriki, who was an ISIS recruiter and attack strategist.
Also in Ohio, the Islamic State instructed Munir Abdulkader to kill a U.S. service member and attack a police station.
“‘Abdulkader was specifically tasked by Hussein and ISIL with killing an individual in the United States,’ Court Documents provided to The DCNF from the Program on Extremism at The George Washington University reveal. Abdulkader’s director Junaid Hussian a British teenager was reportedly killed by a U.S. drone strike outside of ISIS’s capital city of Raqqa.
Abdulkader was reportedly an Eritrean immigrant to the U.S. and became a naturalized U.S. citizen in 2006. University records show he was once enrolled at Xavier University, and the University of Cincinnati.”
On July 7, Abdulkader pled guilty “to attempting to kill officers and employees of the United States, possession of a firearm in furtherance of a crime of violence and providing material support to ISIS. The sentencing memorandum states that, “the Defendant placed himself under the direction and control of a pernicious foreign terrorist organization and plotted with that organization to conduct multiple murderous attacks in the Cincinnati area.”
Abdulkader was reportedly cautioned by Hussain that traveling to Syria was too much of a risk, so he should “consider a violent attack within the United States” instead.
The terror-linked arrests in Ohio may be indicative of calls ISIS has made on numerous occasions in regard to the U.S.:
These threats are made even more chilling by the fact that the FBI has repeatedly stated the bureau is overwhelmed by the number of terror-related cases in the U.S.  The FBI has said it has over 1,000 active cases related to ISIS open. You can help by reporting suspicious activity related to terrorism. Your attentiveness can save lives.
Written by: CandiceLanier
Author Bio:



Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – ISIS, Terrorism)
