
					Ticketmaster suffered a data breach and blamed a third-party provider over the incident					
Hackers accessed name, address, email address, telephone number, payment details and Ticketmaster login details of company customers.
According to the company, attackers installed a malicious code on customer support product hosted by Inbenta Technologies, an external third-party.  Hackers compromised a third-party support customer service chat application deployed on the UK website to steal personal and payment information from customers that purchased tickets.
At the time, there is no information about the extent of the incident, experts believe that the incident may have affected tens of thousands of its customers.
“On Saturday, June 23, 2018, Ticketmaster UK identified malicious software on a customer support product hosted by Inbenta Technologies, an external third-party supplier to Ticketmaster.” reads the data breach notification published by Ticketmaster.
“As soon as we discovered the malicious software, we disabled the Inbenta product across all Ticketmaster websites. Less than 5% of our global customer base has been affected by this incident. Customers in North America have not been affected.”

The ticketing service disabled the Inbenta support customer service chat application from all of its websites.
Inbenta Technologies denied any responsibility and blamed Ticketmaster for have installed its chat application improperly. The company explained that hackers have exploited a single piece of JavaScript code specifically customized for ticketing service company that installed it directly a without notifying Inbenta team.
“Upon further investigation by both parties, it has been confirmed that the source of the data breach was a single piece of JavaScript code, that was customized by Inbenta to meet Ticketmaster’s particular requirements. This code is not part of any of Inbenta’s products or present in any of our other implementations.” reads a statement published by Inbenta.
“Ticketmaster directly applied the script to its payments page, without notifying our team. Had we known that the customized script was being used this way, we would have advised against it, as it incurs greater risk for vulnerability. The attacker(s) located, modified, and used this script to extract the payment information of Ticketmaster customers processed between February and June 2018.”
The ticketing service has launched an investigation to determine the responsibility for the incident and is working with authorities, as well as financial institutions to limit the extent of the incident.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – data breach, hacking)
