
					ISIS Book of Terror for Wi-Fi Hacking and the use of spy tools					
ISIS militants are spreading a small package, titled Book of Terror, containing data of various spy tools, as well as tutorials on how to hack Wi-Fi networks in order to evade detection.
The Book of Terror has been posted online by the ISIS sympathizers a week ago, it is a 5,232-page PDF document.
“It’s difficult to tell if the guide is actually being used by the group, but the 5,232-page PDF was uploaded to a Pastebin-style site just over a week ago, and then linked to from an ISIS supporter forum on Saturday, the pseudonymous security researcher known as “Switched” told Motherboard.” reported Motherboard that first published the news. 
The package includes a guide to teach ISIS militant on how to use encryption to evade surveillance and a manual on the use of firing weapons.
Many Twitter accounts were used the by ISIS to spread copies of the Book of Terror, many websites and forums used for propaganda are also informing sympathizers about the existence of the package, which is written in English.

The package includes an entire section, titled “Secret Spy Devices,” related to electronic equipment. The section includes information on “high power” mobile phone jammer, for recording landline telephone calls and a spy camera hidden within a pen.

The experts who examined the Book of Terror confirmed that it is not a guide written from scratch by the ISIS members, instead it is a cut and paste from consumer electronic sites.
The Book of Terror also explains hot to crack Wi-Fi networks by using the popular Kali Linux distribution to hack WPA and WEP encrypted networks.
“If you live in an area where there are Muslims then refrain from hijacking networks in order to protect these Muslims from harm,”states the guide.
Personally, I’m not surprised that ISIS members are sharing such kind of manual, the information it contains are easy to find online so the diffusion of such documents doesn’t represent a further element of concern.
I’m instead worried by the exploitation of anonymizing networks like Tor and virtual currencies such as the Bitcoin. I fear that in the next months groups linked to the ISIS could acquire in the dark market strain of malware to use and customize for cyber espionage and sabotage.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – ISIS, Book of Terror)
