
					Tails 2.0 is out to protect your privacy and anonymity					
Speaking about privacy and operating system, we are obliged to mention the popular Debian-based distribution Tails “The Amnesiac Incognito Live System.” Now the version 2.0 is available online! Tails is a popular live operating system specifically designed to protect user privacy and anonymity online.
Tails 2.0 was upgraded to Debian 8.0, considered more stable and that fix a number of issues affecting the previous version of Debian.
The live Tails distro can start on almost any computer from removable devices like a DVD, USB stick, and SD card leaving no trace of the user’activity.
The Tails distribution is also famous because the famous whistleblower Edward Snowden is one the most important users.
Tails offers better protection than just using the Tor browser alone on a typical operating system, is also includes a set of tools to protect the user anonymity, such as the Tor Browser and the I2P anonymizing software. The Tails live OS is designed to route all the user traffic over the Tor network to prevent applications from eavesdropping the user’s traffic.
Tails 2.0 includes the latest version of the Tor Browser (5.5).
The most important improvement implemented in the Tails 2.0 is the addition of the Gnome Shell desktop environment in its Classic Mode, which makes very user-friendly the distribution, with classic places menu, and windows list.
“Tails now uses the GNOME Shell desktop environment, in its Classic mode. GNOME Shell provides a modern, simple, and actively developed desktop environment. TheClassic mode keeps the traditional Applications, Places menu, and windows list. Accessibility and non-Latin input sources are also better integrated.” states the official post published by the TorProject.

Of course, Tails 2.0 is considered even more secure, the new version implements a sandboxing mechanism for a number of services to make them more resilient to exploits and other forms of attacks.
Among the upgrades, the change to systemd as init system and use it to:
The new Tails 2.0 includes the update for most firmware packages which might improve hardware.
Tails 2.0 includes a redesigned download and installation process, it is quite easy to install Tails safely such as its components, avoiding tampering of packages.
Be aware, it is impossible to upgrade the existing Tails distro to the 2.0 version due to the improvement implemented.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Tor 2.0, privacy)
