
					Selena Gomez Instagram hacked! Hackers post Bieber nude photos					
Unknown hackers have compromised the Instagram account owned by Selena Gomez and posted nude photographs of her ex-boyfriend Justin Bieber.
Source Tribune.com
The hack doesn’t seem to be associated with the recent Fappening 2017 hack or previous Fappening cases that hit many celebrities.
The Bieber nude images were clicked during a holiday in Bora Bora in 2015 and when the images were leaked online
The Selena’s Instagram account has more than 125 million followers, hackers hijacked it and posted three Bieber’s full-frontal shots of naked pictures.
The hacker published the Bieber’s naked photos on the Selena Gomez official Instagram account with this message:
“LOOK AT THIS N***A LIL SHRIMPY.”
The account was taken down Monday night after the hack, the staff of the popular star restored the access to the Instagram account and deleted the Bieber naked photos.
“The Bieber images were the same ones that were published after the pop star’s Bora Bora vacation in 2015. Gomez and Bieber used to be a couple, but are no longer together.” reported the outlet Variety.
“Bieber has said that the publication of the images, originally in the New York Daily News censored (though the uncensored versions later made the rounds online), made him feel “super violated.” “Like, I feel like I can’t step outside and feel like I can go outside naked,” he told Access Hollywood in 2015. “Like, you should feel comfortable in your own space… especially that far away.””
It is still unclear how hackers have hijacked the Selena Gomez Instagram account, it is likely the staff of the pop star was the victim of phishing attack.
A few days ago, private pictures of Anne Hathaway, Miley Cyrus, Stella Maxwell, Kristen Stewart, Tiger Woods and Lindsey Vonn have been posted online by a celebrity leak website.
Hackers gained access to celebrities’ iCloud accounts and stole their private photos and videos.
Dear star … force your staff enabling two-factor verification on your accounts, start adopting strong passwords, don’t share same credentials on different accounts, be vigilant on suspicious and unsolicited emails.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Selena Gomez, hacking)
