
					Hacking Team will be back to business soon					
After the embarrassing data breach suffered by the Hacking Team, the surveillance company plans to rebuild the “empire”. The hackers likely haven’t stolen the entire intellectual property of the firm, which still has some “gems” in its arsenal ready to be used.
“What happened earlier this summer in the attack on our company was a reckless and vicious crime,” “We have reported it to Italian authorities who are investigating it and we expect the authorities of other nations to be involved as well. While it is true that criminals exposed some of our source code to internet users, it is also true that by now the exposed system elements because of universal ability to detect these system elements.” Said David Vincenzetti, CEO of Hacking Team.
Vincenzetti also claims that the hackers hasn’t exposed important elements of their source code, and that the company experts are now focused on rebuilding the internal infrastructure, before thinking on open for business.

The principal issue of a hypothetical return in the business is the company reputation. Security industry now has the proof that the company works also for rogue nations.
Other side effects of the Hacking Team hack is the resignation of Andreas Pentaras. the head of the Cyprus Intelligence Service, since was discovered that his department was using Hacking Team’s products, and the detached with Netragard company that issued a public apology where it said “It was our mutual understanding that this buyer maintained the same code of ethics as our own. Unfortunately we were very, very wrong.”
The story of the Hacking Team hack is embarrassing as scandalous, yesterday media revealed that the Hacking Team supported the Italian National Military police to hijack internet’s BGP routing system to take over the IP addresses of a foreign ISP.
Time is passing and the scandals multiply, experts speculate that new material will appear, despite I’m sure that hacking Team will can come back soon, I don’t believe it can quick recovery  the situation.
This is the tip of the iceberg, Hacking Team for sure is just one of the company that makes dirty business with rogue nations and bloody regimes.
About the Author Elsio Pinto
Edited by Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – surveillence, Hacking Team)
