
					Cyberspace under a shadow of Cyber Poisons and Antidotes					
Period 2015 has become a continuous process of turbulent scenarios in cyberspace because new potential threats, by dealing new opportunities for cybercrime with massive Cyber Poisons. Nevertheless, Antidotes are also part of a global challenge on cyberspace to combat terrorism and cyber-attacks through a preventive and resilient way in reaction of potential cyber risks.
Following publication of Symantec Internet Security Threat Report 2015, we may consider new global trends on cybercrime, by recognizing how “Attackers are moving faster.”
At least, 5 of 6 large companies attacked in 2014, 317M pieces of malware created for criminal purposes, 1M new threat had been detected daily during 2014, and 60% of attacks targeted SMEs. Moreover, it was a potential increase of “Digital extortion” with ransomware attacks soared 113% in 2014. In addition, malware activity got 28% on Virtual Machine Aware. Nevertheless, Zero-Day Threats were matching Top 5 of unpatched during 295 days in 2014.
What about sectors, the potential targets for cyber-crime are oriented to affect Healthcare, Retail, Education, Government and Financial. Cyber Poisons are represented as a critical cycle of Lack of Visibility, Attack Complexity, Defender Imbalance, Speed of Attacks and Lack of Resources.

 
In fact, Big Data Security Analytics provides a maximum protection to guarantee:
“Predictive Analysis & Adversary Intelligence”
“Earlier Event Detection & Prioritization”
“Faster Incident Response &Better Risk Management”
Reported by Brighttalk
About the Author Francisco Javier Delgado Villarreal
Francisco Javier Delgado Villarreal is a Junior Business Continuity, Cybersecurity and Internet Governance Consultant. His professional experience in Information and Communication Technologies has been developed since 2009 in different arenas, such as International Organizations, Governments and private sector in Ecuador and abroad.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Cyberspace , cyber security)
