
					Turkish hackers took over a Russian Govt Instagram account					
Events in the cyberspace are strictly correlated with facts in the real life, in many cases, disputes between countries are associated with numerous cyber events that could be analyzed by intelligence analysts.
The recent crisis in Crimea between Russia and Ukraine is just an example, today we will analyze evidence of ongoing dispute between Russia and Turkey following the shooting down of the Russian aircraft in Syria.
Russia is accusing the Turkish Government of supporting the ISIS and its dirty affairs with the oil smuggling, the Russian intelligence is collecting the evidence of support provided by the Turkish officials to the members of the IS.
In the cyberspace Turkish hackers started their offensive against Russian targets, news of the day is that a Turkish hacking crew, The Börteçine Cyber Team, took over the Russian minister’s Instagram account this morning.

The Börteçine Cyber Team compromised the Russian Communications and Mass Media Minister Nikolai Nikiforov’s Instagram account. The hackers replaced images shared by Nikiforov with the picture of a Turkish flag, of the Russian Su-24 jet shot down by the Turkish air force, and a portrait of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, the founder of the Turkish Republic.

“Hacked by Bortecine Siber Tim,” read the caption under the pictures added by the hackers.
At the time I was writing the Turkish hackers are still controlling the account.
This attack comes a few days after Turkish hackers belonging to the group called Ayyildiz announced its intent to attack Russian websites. The same group also claimed to have compromised one of the websites managed by the Anonymous collective.
On the other side Anonymous hackers have claimed credit for taking down nearly half a million Turkish domains in December launching with a series of major DDoS attacks. Anonymous waged a war against the Turkish to condemn its alleged support for the ISIS.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  Turkish hackers, ISIS)
