
					UK National Security Strategy, Cyber Security is a top priority					
The strategy considers cyber security a top priority alongside the resurgence of state-based threats (Russia’s actions in Syria and Ukraine) and the terrorism (extremism and instability).
When dealing with the impact of technology, especially cyber threats the report states:
“The range of cyber threats and cyber actors threatening the UK has grown significantly – both from state and non-state actors. The UK increasingly relies on networked technology in all areas of society, business and government. This means that we could be vulnerable to attacks on parts of networks that are essential for the day-to-day running of the country and the economy.” reads the “National Security Strategy and Strategic Defence and Security Review 2015 First Annual Report 2016“
The Government is working with private industry in order to prevent and reduce the effects of cyber attacks against its infrastructure. Communications service providers, for example, are crucial partners for threat intelligence activities that is one of the main activities of the National Cyber Security Centre.

According to the updates for the National Cyber Security Strategy in November 2016, the PM Theresa May’s administration will increase focus on investment in automated detection systems and active cyber defence (response).
“We continue to invest in cyber detection and response, as attacks against the UK continue to rise. Over the last year, we have developed new technical capabilities to improve our ability to detect and analyse sophisticated cyber threats.” continues the report. “Law enforcement continues to work with industry partners to increase specialist capability and expertise, as well as providing additional training in digital forensics. We are also continuing to progress our Active Cyber Defence measures against high-level threats, by strengthening UK networks against high volume/ low sophistication malware.”
The UK National Cyber Security Strategy also highlights a skill shortage in cyber security, for this reason, the UK government wants to launch a cyber security education program that will involve also teenagers in schools and university.
“A new Cyber Security Skills Strategy is now under development, which will set out how we will work with industry and academic providers to secure a pipeline of competent cyber security professionals.” states the report. “The first cohort of 14-17 year olds will begin training under this programme in 2017.”
The UK Government is working with industry to establish specific cyber apprenticeships for three critical national infrastructure sectors, the energy, finance and transport.
The National Cyber Security Strategy includes a specific session that addresses the cyber crime. Law enforcement bodies are working with the private industry actors to increase the efficiency of their action against the cyber crime. To tackle
The UK Government intends to tackle abuses in the ‘dark web‘, announcing new Dark Web Intelligence Unit within the NCA.
The UK Government is also investing in regional cyber crime prevention coordinators, who “engage with SMEs and the public to provide bespoke cyber security advice”.
Many other information related to the UK National Security Strategy is included in the report, enjoy it.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – National Cyber Security Centre, UK) 
