
					Hacker Interviews – Revolxy from PøwerfulGreəkArmy					
Enjoy the Interview.

You are a known hacker that has already participated in several hacking campaigns, could you tell me more about.
I have participated in campaigns such as #OpTurkey , #OpISIS and #OpPedo. I’m targeting government sites of ISIS , ISIS accounts, and Erdogan. Also, I’m taking down pedophile accounts.
Could you tell me which his your technical background and when you started hacking? Which are your motivations?
I started hacking at 2013 but I got better at hacking at 2014, ‘DDoSsing’ servers , defacing websites and hacking, bruteforcing accounts. Then I started hacking as a time job and for good , like the #OpISIS campaign, #OpTurkey campaign , hacking ISIS accounts and sites. On the #OpTurkey campaign , I’m targeting websites of the Turkish Government and Erdogan. My motivations are for messages to the world and for good.
What was your greatest hacking challenge? Which was your latest hack? Can you describe me it?
My greatest hacking challenge was that I hacked so many ISIS accounts and sites. Also, my latest Hacks – attacks were on Pokemon Go and agar.io servers with my team.
What are the 4 tools that cannot be missed in the hacker’s arsenal and why?
4 tools that cannot be missed are :
Which are the most interesting hacking communities on the web today, why?
The most interesting Hacking communities on the web I think are Hackforums , leakforums and nulled.io. But I think Hackforums is still the best , you can learn many things in coding and hacking. Also, another good hacking community is greekhacking forum.
Did you participate in hacking attacks against the IS propaganda online? When? How?
Yea, I participate in ISIS propaganda online , on #OpIsis campaign , hacking ISIS accounts isis government sites.
Where do you find IS people to hack? How do you choose your targets?
I find ISIS Accounts to hack from CtrlSec on Twitter and randomly.
We often hear about cyber weapons and cyber attacks against critical infrastructure. Do you believe it is real the risk of a major and lethal cyber attack against a critical infrastructure?
Yes, the risk is high as these infrastructures are critical targets for attackers.
Thanks a lot!
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – PøwerfulGreəkArmy, Revolxy)
