
					Fappening 2.0 – More explicit pictures of celebrities leaked online					
Here we are speaking again of Fappening, new nude pictures of celebrities have been leaked online.
In 2014 for the first time, several lots of private photographs of celebrities were leaked online, the phenomenon was dubbed Fappening,
This time private photos of Emma Watson, Amanda Seyfried and others appeared online, for this reason, netizens called it “The Fappening 2.0.”
Emma Watson attends the ‘Beauty and the Beast’ New York screening at Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center on March 13, 2017 in New York City. | Verwendung weltweit
The private images are already circulating on the Internet, several users on Reddit and 4chan are sharing links to the pictures.
The Watson’s images show the actress posing in various swimsuits in front of a mirror while a friend takes the pictures. The photos of Amanda Seyfried and Jillian Murray show the stars nude and some of them while they are doing sex.
Data leak includes pictures and videos showing Emma Watson filming herself naked in the bathtub, while another showing her masturbating.
The list of victims of the first Fappening wave includes major celebrities such as Jennifer Lawrence, Kim Kardashian, and Kate Upton. Hackers broke into their Apple’s iCloud accounts and stole the private images.
The images belonging to the “The Fappening 2.0” were leaked online this week, they are selfies and explicitly sexual photos.
The images shared on the original 4chan thread by unknown hackers announced more photos of celebrities will be leaked, including Kylie Jenner, Marisa Tomei, Jennifer Lawrence and several others.
None of the affected celebrities commented the data leak, a representative for Emma Watson announced that her lawyers are already working on the case.
“Photos from a clothes fitting Emma had with a stylist a couple of years ago have been stolen. They are not nude photographs. Lawyers have been instructed and we are not commenting further.” said Watson’s representatives.
This is the beginning of The Fappening 2.0, it could be just the tip of the iceberg!
As usual, let me close with a few suggestions to protect your accounts from prying eyes.
 
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Fappening 2.0, data leak)
