
					Theresa May says ‘enough is enough’ after the London Bridge terror attack					
The London Bridge terror attack is fueling the debate about the Internet regulation, the Prime Minister Theresa May believe the terrorists had ‘safe spaces’ online and this is no more acceptable.
Prime Minister Theresa May explained that introducing new rules for cyberspace would “deprive the extremists of their safe spaces online,” she also added that IT giants were not doing enough.

After the Manchester Arena attack, another terror attack sowed death and horror, terrorists used a van and knife attack to kill seven people, dozens of people were injured.
The London attack reignites the debate around the compromise between privacy and security, while Intelligence agencies warn of new possible terrorist attacks in Europe.
The three recent terror attacks in the UK were not linked by “common networks”, they were “bound together by the single evil ideology of Islamic extremism”.
“We cannot allow this ideology the safe space it needs to breed – yet that is precisely what the internet and the big companies that provide Internet-based services provide,” Theresa May said.
“We need to work with allies democratic governments to reach international agreements to regulate cyberspace to prevent the spread of extremist and terrorism planning.

“It is an ideology that is a perversion of Islam and a perversion of the truth,” she said. “Defeating this ideology is one of the great challenges of our time. But it cannot be defeated through military intervention alone.” ““It is time to say enough is enough. Everybody needs to go about their lives as they normally would. Our society should continue to function in accordance with our values. But when it comes to taking on extremism and terrorism, things need to change.”
In March, the British Interior Minister Amber Rudd reaffirmed that technology firms must collaborate with law enforcement agencies in the fight against threats like the terrorism. The companies should stop offering a “secret place for terrorists to communicate” through encrypted messaging systems.
The British Conservatives urges for a regulation of the Internet that will oblige internet providers to support counter-extremism activities and will help to eradicate the online child pornography.
“The call was one plank in Ms May’s speech following the attack. The Prime Minister also said Britain was too tolerant of extremism and that “pluralistic” British values had to be established as superior.” reported The Independent.
“Ms May speech is thought to be the first time she has publicly called for international cooperation in bringing forward more red tape to cyberspace, however.”
Speaking about the London Bridge terror attack, the home secretary, Amber Rudd, said security services did not believe the attackers were part of a wider plot. According to Amber this is the reason why the independent Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (JTAC) had not advised raising the national alert level.
“We don’t believe there are additional elements which could be carrying on the attack we saw last night – JTAC, rather, has made that assessment, so they haven’t recommended going to critical.” said Rudd.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  Prime Minister Theresa May, London Bridge terror attack)
