
					Iranian Government says Daesh doesn’t pose a threat to Iran					
“Live by the sword, die by the sword,” Iranian hackers are intensifying their activities against the Western countries, recently security firms have uncovered several cyber espionage campaigns targeting US and European. organizations.
In November, experts from Check Point firm published a new report on the Rocket Kitten group, revealing the intensification of the Iranian activities in the cyberspace.
But Iranian experts are aware of possible threat originating from the cyberspace, not only Western governments, but also militant of the ISIS terrorist group.
The Daesh has a credible offensive cyber capability, this is the opinion of the cyber security expert Mikko Hyppönen which worries about cyber terrorists belonging to the Islamic State (Daesh, ISIL or ISIS) have a credible offensive cyber capability.
The Daesh is also threatening the Iranian Government, last week the Iran Chief Brigadier General Kamal Hadianfar announced at a Monday press conference that Iranian FATA (The Iranian Cyber Police) has identified and admonished an individual spreading the rumor that Daesh might pose a cyber threat to Iran. Hadianfar explained that the man admitted his error, but anyway he hasn’t done anything illegal.

“Hadianfar told a press conference that the person spreading the rumor that Daesh will pose threat to Iran on December 11 has been identified. He added he is living in northern Iran.” states a report published by the Islamic Republic News Agency (IRNA).
“FATA admonished the person for the issue, he said adding the person admitted to have made mistake, but, insisted that he has not committed any crime.”
According to the Islamic Republic News Agency (IRNA), the Chief Brigadier General Kamal Hadianfar explained that the FATA is monitoring the evolution of Daesh in the country, especially the activities exploiting the technological means.
132 websites linked to the terror group ISIS had been identified and shutdown, ha confirmed that all initiatives of propaganda has been nipped in the bud.
The commander of the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC) anyway confirmed that no serious threat has been posed by Daesh for cyber attack.
I personally consider a serious error to underestimate every cyber threat, including the ISIS cyber capabilities.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – FATA, Daesh)
