
					Hacker Interview Mubix “Rob” Fuller – Security Affairs					
Rob has over 11 years of experience covering all facets of information security. He has been behind the lines helping to design, build, and defend the US Marine Corps, US Senate, and Pentagon networks – as well as performing penetration tests and Red Team assessments against those same networks. More recently, Rob has performed numerous successful Red Team assessments against commercial Fortune 50 companies representing some of the best defensive teams in the industry.
I think my earliest “hacking” was cheating at video games. I enjoyed learning the mechanics of how the Game Genie and GameShark worked, and how I could cheat at games rather than playing them. My parents always thought that I ruined the games, but it really was the figuring out how to get the right hex for infinite life or ammo that was the game for me.
After that I owe my traditional IT / Security learning to the Marine Corps’s 0651 and 0656 schools, the amazingly patient Marines and civilians at the MARCERT, the OSCP and Chris Gates’ blog.

The greatest hacking challenge I would say is myself. Self-awareness is an ever progressing goal, I attempt to figure out and make myself better every day. I fail at it a lot, but all the best hacks are pure and simple perseverance and I plan to never let this one have the better of me.
So much troll ammo in that question. Or I could go the philosophical route and talk about the mind, and never giving up, but I’ll take the question at face value (this will be heavily weighted towards Windows since that’s my specialty):
I’ve never really been welcome or even interested in the darker side of hacking communities. I would get caught if I even tried to dive into that world.
To know one’s limitations is to know one’s self
However, I run NoVAHackers with Chris Gates so I would be remiss to not mention it, and it’s parent AHA. Both are great communities with basically a mini-conference every month at the meetings.
If you don’t have a hacker space, or “Hackers Association” in your area, first, look harder there probably is one that you just haven’t found yet, and second, if not, start it. I went to the first 2 or 3 meetings of NoVA Hackers by myself. Don’t be deterred by single digit membership or attendance. NoVA Hackers is near ~700 members + another 500 or so alumni since it started in 2009.
Honestly, I don’t want to answer this. Why would you point at someone and say “hit him, he’s easier to take down”
The fact that people think it’s a weapon for or against them.
Yes, but in what country? Is the U.S. even the most connected these days? I doubt it. In counter point I would like you to watch the following for actual statistics on the matter by @SpaceRogue:
Same issue with the industry question, not going to point at the weakest link. I guess an argument to the fact that making light of these targets helps to force action, but I think unless you have had your head in the sand every knows of “Cyber Threats” these days, and a heading like:
Security Expert Rob Fuller says that Widgets are the most vulnerable target in U.S. Infrastructure
doesn’t really further any message or get anyone’s attention to something they don’t already know.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  Hacker, Mubix “Rob” Fuller)
