
					Lavish Cars with Wireless Technology and Dashboards Can Be Hacked					
It has been reported that cars wit fitted wireless technology can be hacked by experts and cause grave problems to their owners. Hackers have now got the knowledge and ability to track down dashboard technology and intercept crucial info from vehicles.
Of course, everything that uses wireless technology should be suspect of vulnerabilities and we bet that everyone had this in the back of his mind. Last year, there was an enlightening article on Forbes where new nasty attacks were triggered behind the wheel and aroused concern as to the safety of such vehicles.
Imagine you do not control the brakes on your car from one moment to the next or take a moment to think of a hacked GPS and the problems that this could bring to you. Keyless ignition systems can be overcome and driverless cars can be unlocked instantly and without any fail whatsoever. Although wireless technology has been a blessing in many ways, compromising one’s safety does not even qualify as risk worthy of taking.

Over time, a lot more vehicles have become dependent on various aspects of technology and this is what has raised concern regarding the overall security hazards that might derive from this change. Once a hacker has accessed the remote control of a vehicle, innumerable options appear and a lot of different functions can be twisted. All at once, there can be surveillance through the use of speakers without the consent of the driver or anyone else inside the vehicle.
Edmund King, the President of the Automobile Association, commented accordingly:
“You are now getting the connected car. You’re getting cars that are connected to the internet 24 hours a day. If cybercriminals targeted automobiles like they’re targeting other things we’d be in for a hard and fast ride. The more cars rely on technology, particularly remote technology, the more there is to get at. The most dangerous possibility was criminals hacking into a car’s safety systems, including cruise control and braking. Ultimately there could be a terrorist-type threat to transport systems. I don’t think we’re there yet but it’s something that needs to be addressed.”
Convenient though it can be for people to use wireless technology and facilitate the whole driving experience, precaution needs to be taken. Fortunately enough, technology does not only come with dangers; indeed, there is a lot that can be done with the use of remote wireless functions for increasing safety on board!
Written by: Ali Qamar, Founder/Chief Editor at SecurityGladiators.com
Author Bio:
Ali Qamar is an Internet security research enthusiast who enjoys “deep” research to dig out modern discoveries in the security industry. He is the founder and chief editor at Security Gladiators, an ultimate source for cyber security. To be frank and honest, Ali started working online as a freelancer and still shares the knowledge for a living. He is passionate about sharing the knowledge with people, and always try to give only the best. Follow Ali on Twitter @AliQammar57
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  Hacking cars, cybercrime)
