
					TaiG Jailbreak for Mac, tool for jailbreaking iOS 8.4 (Mac OS X version) Released					
Apple’s iOS 8.4 operating system for Mac OS X can be jail broken now, thanks to the Untethered Jailbreak tool released by the Chinese jailbreaking team TaiG. Quite a great news for all the iOS 8.4 users, right?
Yes, finally, OS x users can download and use TaiG Jailbreak for jailbreaking iOS 8.4 on their Mac PCs without having to worry about getting their hands on virtual machine.
The TaiG team released their Jailbreak tool in .exe format for windows, earlier in June but the Mac users were left behind with options to use other apps or Boot Camp for tweaking thir devices based on iOS.
Being at Mac version 1.0.0 currently, TaiG Jailbreak for the Mac is coded to support iOS versions from 8.1.3 to 8.4. The tool can be downloaded from project’s official website.

How do I jailbreak my device?
Process involved in jailbreaking the Mac device is extremely easy, as much that anyone can do that. Below, I’ll walk you through the Mac jailbreaking process using TaiG Mac Jailbreak tool in a flash:
Finally, one or two reboots later, there you go – you should have your device jailbroken if that’s all over
It’s worth mentioning at the end that TaiG Jailbreak method is untethered, meaning your iOS device won’t require reboot every single time when a connection to another external device that’s capable of executing the commands on it will be made.
Written by: Ali Qamar, Founder/Chief Editor at SecurityGladiators.com
Author Bio:
Ali Qamar is an Internet security research enthusiast who enjoys “deep” research to dig out modern discoveries in the security industry. He is the founder and chief editor at Security Gladiators, an ultimate source for cyber security. To be frank and honest, Ali started working online as a freelancer and still shares the knowledge for a living. He is passionate about sharing the knowledge with people, and always try to give only the best. Follow Ali on Twitter @AliQammar57
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Jailbreak, Apple)
