
					On Friday, United Nation can decide that Assange is being illegally detained					
The United Nations will reveal very soon the results of its investigation on the case of Julian Assange, the Wikileaks founder. WikiLeaks published secret information and classified media from anonymous sources. Wikileaks already published more than 10 million documents, Assange described its platform as “a giant library of the world’s most persecuted documents”
The decision is set to be announced next Friday 4 February, when the US would order the release of Assange.
BREAKING: UN set to announce decision on #Assange‘s release on Friday; more https://t.co/yIHlDNzabh pic.twitter.com/t75SbpU8Fp
— WikiLeaks (@wikileaks) 2 Febbraio 2016

Julian Paul Assange is an Australian journalist that founded Wikileaks in 2006, he is currently residing in the Ecuador embassy in London, after having been granted political asylum in August 2012.
Many ignore that Assange has a past as a hacker, in 1987 under the pseudonym Mendax he hacked many organizations with two colleagues known as “Trax” and “Prime Suspect.”
The list of victims is long and includes the Pentagon, the U.S. Navy, NASA, and Australia’s Overseas Telecommunications Commission; Citibank, Lockheed Martin, Motorola, Panasonic, and Xerox.
In 1996, he pleaded guilty to twenty-five charges and was ordered to pay reparations of A$2,100 and released on a good behavior bond.
Assange has been residing in the embassy since 2012 to avoid extradition, the popular journalist is facing sexual assault allegations in Sweden, meanwhile, the United States ask him to respond the accusation of cyber espionage for publishing classified US military and diplomat documents.
On September 2014, Julian Assange filed a complaint against Sweden and the United Kingdom, that has been considered by the UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention.
We have to sit and wait for the decision on the Assanges’ case. If the and if the group will decide that the man is being illegally detained, the UN is expected to call on the UK and Sweden to release him.
“IF THE WGAD FINDS IN FAVOUR OF JULIAN ASSANGE — WHAT HAPPENS NEXT?
If the WGAD finds in Julian Assange’s favour, it will declare that Julian Assange is arbitrarily detained. In this case the UK and Sweden must immediately release and compensate him.”
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – UN, Wikileaks)
