
					Watson Is Getting Ready from IBM to Deal with Hackers					
IBM’s computer brain, or else Watson, has been known to multitask, already involved in fighting cancer and cooking and so many other things. Right now, the focus of IBM has been placed towards dealing with hackers and therefore a whole campaign has got ready for educating Watson accordingly. In specific, Watson for Cybersecurity is the new project launched by IBM, including the participation of eight universities for offering their knowledge to Watson. The target is of course cybercrime!
Since there is a lot to take in, the primary educational goal is to process about 15,000 documents on a monthly basis. All the documents will be related to cyber security, so as for Watson to develop a deep and thorough understanding of the terms used and the concepts involved. Even though the contribution of the universities is going to be crucial at first, eventually Watson will be properly educated towards processing everything on its own.

Apparently, in the long run the goal of IBM is to have a powerful ally that will handle a gigantic volume of data related to cyber security. As a result, Watson is going to be super-efficient in dealing with any threats emerging and coming up with the perfect solutions to all similar problems. Due to the fact that there are quite a few false positives in the alerts sent over to tech specialists, it is extremely difficult to address the threats and either classify them as serious or ignore them. Watson will be able to do that, unlike humans.
Instead of replacing the tech specialists, Watson is going to provide exceptional knowledge and invaluable help to them. With the help of Watson in dealing with excessive quantities of data and with the personalized look of the experts, cyber security will be proven exquisitely effective! Rather than just blocking the threat, they will be able to prevent similar threats coming up in the future. This is definitely precious, especially in the delicate environment of cyberspace.
Among the universities laying a helping hand in this ambitious, optimistic scheme, we find MIT (Massachusetts Institute of Technology), New York University and California State Polytechnic University Pomona. Good luck to IBM and its computer brain!
Written by: Ali Qamar, Founder/Chief Editor at SecurityGladiators.com
Author Bio:
Ali Qamar is an Internet security research enthusiast who enjoys “deep” research to dig out modern discoveries in the security industry. He is the founder and chief editor at Security Gladiators, an ultimate source for cyber security. To be frank and honest, Ali started working online as a freelancer and still shares the knowledge for a living. He is passionate about sharing the knowledge with people, and always try to give only the best. Follow Ali on Twitter @AliQammar57
 
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – IBM, computing)
