
					Crackas leader (15) gained access to data of intel operations in Afghanistan and Iran by posing as the CIA chief					
Do you remember “Crackas With Attitude”?
You remember for sure the Crackas With Attitude, a hacking crew that claimed clamorous actions in support of the Palestine cause.
The notorious group is responsible for clamorous attacks against US intelligence officials, the list of targeted victims is long and includes James Clapper, the Director of National Intelligence under President Obama’s administration and the deputy director of the FBI Jeh Johnson, CIA director John Brennan.
Cracka is also responsible for the disclosure of personal information of 31,000 government agents, including data of FBI agents, Department of Homeland Security (DHS) officers and DoJ employees.

Cracka used the account “@DotGovz” on Twitter to publish online the sensitive data.
The Cracka with Attitude team always expressed its support to Palestine, they hacked US Government entities due to its support to the Israeli politics.
The group was lead by a British teenager, Kane Gamble, that was 15-years-old at the time of the hack of CIA director.
According to prosecutors, Kane Gamble accessed secret data related to intelligence operations in Afghanistan and Iran by pretending to be head of CIA.
“He accessed some extremely sensitive accounts referring to, among other things, military operations and intelligence operations in Afghanistan and Iran.” said John Lloyd-Jones QC prosecutor.

Gamble was arrested in February 2016, in October 2017, Kane Gamble pleaded guilty to ten charges related to the attempted intrusions occurred between late 2015 and early 2016.
Two other members of Crackas With Attitude team, Andrew Otto Boggs and Justin Gray Liverman, were arrested by FBI in September 2016 and had already been sentenced to five years in federal prison.
Gamble pleaded guilty to eight charges of performing a function with intent to gain unauthorized access, and two charges of unauthorized acts with intent to compromise the operation of a computer.
“It all started by me getting more and more annoyed at how corrupt and cold-blooded the US Government is so I decided to do something about it.” Gamble told a journalist.
“The court heard Gamble “felt particularly strongly” about US-backed Israeli violence against Palestinians, the shooting of black people by US police, racist violence by the KKK and the bombing of civilians in Iraq and Syria.” reported The Sun.
Gamble’s advocate sustained that Gamble he is on the autism spectrum at the time of his offending had the mental development of a teenager.
“Medical experts for the defence argue that he is on the autism spectrum and at the time of his offending had the mental development of a 12 or 13-year-old.” reported The Telegraph.
“He has no friends to speak off and is closest to his mother Ann, a cleaner who reportedly won a £1.6million lottery jackpot in 1997  but  “lost all the money on doomed property deals”.  
William Harbage QC said that after his arrest he told doctors “it was kind of easy” and that he had little consequences of his actions “in his bedroom on the internet thousands of miles away”. “
The teenager is waiting for the final sentence.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – CIA Director, email hacking)
