
					Malware infections on Android devices have been halved in 2014					
Google confirmed that malware infections have been halved in a year due to  security upgrades for the Android mobile platform.
Android security engineer Adrian Ludwig explained in a blog post that Google implemented a multilayered approach to mobile Security for the Android platform and the services it provides.
“In addition to traditional protections like encryption and application sandboxes, these layers use both automated and manual review systems to keep the ecosystem safe from malware, phishing scams, fraud, and spam every day.” wrote Ludwig.
The overall worldwide rate of potentially harmful mobile apps was reduced nearly 50 percent in the 2014. Keep secure over one billion Android devices worldwide is hard, Google does it through Google Play “which conducts 200 million security scans of devices per day“, the company proudly points out that fewer than one percent of the mobile devices had potentially harmful mobile applications installed.
Android is wrongly perceived as a vulnerable platform and these data highlights the amazing effort spent by Google to secure this open platform.
“We want to ensure that Android is a safe place, and this report has helped us take a look at how we did in the past year, and what we can still improve on,” Ludwig said.
The situation is better if we limit the analysis to the number of users that only install their apps from the official Google Play, in this case the rate of potentially malicious apps was less than 0.15 percent.
Android issued several security upgrades from Q1 2014 and Q4 2014, according to the report over 25,000 applications in Google Play were updated according to the security notifications issued by Google Play.

Recently Google announced further improvements for its platform to offer users a positive experience while searching for mobile apps on the official Google Play store. The improvements will be offered to both developers and mobile users.
“In 2015, we have already announced that we are being even more proactive in reviewing applications for all types of policy violations within Google Play. Outside of Google Play, we have also increased our efforts to enhance protections for specific higher-risk devices and regions.”
Below the key findings from the report:
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  Android, mobile apps)
