
					AT&T short codes exposes users to phishing scams					
AT&T customers are exposed phishing attacks due to proprietary AT&T’s text protocols. Computer programmer Dani Grant discovered that is quite easy to spoof text messages from AT&T. In this variant of “Phishing” attacks, crooks attempt to trick victims into revealing their sensitive data by sending text messages, containing short codes, that appear to be from legitimate companies.
Grant explained that AT&T uses different short codes that could be abused by attackers to trick company’s customers into phishing scams. AT&T customers are unable to distinguish between the legitimate short codes and phishing messages.
AT&T handles its customer alerts via text messages, for this reason, cyber criminals try to reproduce this functionality for phishing attacks. Grant explained that attackers also use short codes as a social engineering tactic, the programmer highlighted that short codes are typically expensive, so users tend to believe that messages containing them are sent by a trustable entity. Threat actors could send AT&T alerts that appear like the legitimate one and AT&T customers have no way to discriminate them.
Another security issue is that some of AT&T legitimate links redirect users to domains not obviously associated with AT&T like att.com and dl.mymobilelocate.com.
“Another problem is that AT&T directs customers to URLs like dl.mymobilelocation.com which aren’t obviously associated with AT&T,” Grant wrote. “Every AT&T text looks like this, so customers learn to trust any text that claims to be from AT&T, no matter on what they’re being asked to click.“
Another element that generates confusion is the lack of a specific format for the AT&T text messages, as explained by Grant some messages start with all capital letters,  “AT&T FREE MSG”, in other cases in all lowercase: “AT&T Free MSG.”
Grant provided the following possible solution to the security issue:
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – AT&T, phishing, short codes)
