
					FBI seized Tormail database, it has the access to all users emails					
Do you have used the Tormail Email service to protect your privacy? Are you searching for anonymity online? Well, the revelation regarding Tor Stinks project and many recent news on the spying activity discovered on Tor Traffic made by an unknown Russian entity suggest us that nothing is completely secure and that anonymity is hard to preserve in these days. Last disturbing news is related the Tormail Email service, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) seized its database for its investigation on cybercrime, the operation is linked to seizure of Freedom Hosting, the most popular Tor hidden service operator company.  The news was disclosed by Wired that reported that the database is used in completely unrelated investigations, the FBI is collecting information to catch cyber criminals and hackers that used the Tor network to protect their anonymity, the problem is that Tor was also used by normal people that desire to be anonymous online for legitimate purposes.

 
The attack against Freedom Hosting took advantage of a Firefox Zero-day to identify some users of the Tor anonymity network. The FBI had control of the Freedom Hosting company to investigate on child pornography activities, Freedom Hosting was considered by US law enforcement the largest child porn facilitator on the planet.
Mozilla confirmed the presence of the security vulnerability in Firefox 17 (MFSA 2013-53), which is currently the extended support release (ESR) version of Firefox.”
“The exploit is based on a Javascript that is a tiny Windows executable hidden in a variable dubbed “Magneto”. Magneto code looks up the victim’s Windows hostname and MAC address and sends the information back to the FBI Virginia server exposing the victims’s real IP address. The script sends back the data with a standard HTTP web request outside the Tor Network.” I wrote in a previous post on the event.
“The tactic suggests the FBI is adapting to the age of big-data with an NSA-style collect-everything approach, gathering information into a virtual lock box, and leaving it there until it can obtain specific authority to tap it later. There’s no indication that the FBI searched the trove for incriminating evidence before getting a warrant. But now that it has a copy of TorMail’s servers, the bureau can execute endless search warrants on a mail service that once boasted of being immune to spying.”“We have no information to give you or to respond to any subpoenas or court orders,” read TorMail’s homepage. “Do not bother contacting us for information on, or to view the contents of a TorMail user inbox, you will be ignored.”
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – TorMail, Anonymity)
