
					Microsoft releases security updates for Flash Player, but two disclosed flaws remain unpatched					
On Tuesday Microsoft issued the security updates KB 4010250 that address flaws in Adobe Flash Player. The updates fix the vulnerabilities in Internet Explorer on Windows 8.1 and later, as well as Edge for Windows 10, but two already disclosed flaws remain unpatched.
The bad news is that two already disclosed flaws still remain uncovered by the security updates and could be exploited by attackers in the wild.
A few days ago, Microsoft announced that the February patches would be delayed until March due to a last minute issue, in response Google Project Zero experts published the details of the Remote Code Execution vulnerability in Windows.
Microsoft alerted its customers anticipating the incoming patches on Monday and urged them to update their systems as soon as possible.
Now Microsoft released the security patches and the company confirmed that “No other security updates are scheduled for release until the next scheduled monthly update release on March 14, 2017.”
The Bulletin MS17-005 for Adobe Flash Player addresses critical remote code execution (RCE) affecting Windows systems.
“Security Update for Adobe Flash Player (4010250) This security update resolves vulnerabilities in Adobe Flash Player when installed on all supported editions of Windows 8.1, Windows Server 2012, Windows Server 2012 R2, Windows RT 8.1, Windows 10, and Windows Server 2016.” reads the security bulletin.

As anticipated, the two flaws will remain unpatched until 14th March, giving attackers the opportunity to target Windows systems.
The first flaw is a Windows SMB (Server Message Block) vulnerability that affects Windows 8, Windows 10 and Windows Server. It is a memory corruption vulnerability in the SMBprotocol that can be exploited by a remote attacker, the proof-of-concept exploit code of the flaw was recently publicly released.
The second flaw doesn’t address by the last security updates is the one recently disclosed by the Google Project Zero team that affects Windows operating systems ranging from Windows Vista Service Pack 2 to the latest Windows 10.
Don’t waste time check for updates on your Windows PC and patch your system immediately to avoid the exploitation of the Flash Player software in your browser.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Windows zero-day, hacking)
