
					Rapid7’s HD Moore will leave after Six Wonderful Years					
HD Moore, it is one of the most popular cyber security experts and hacker, he is the father of the popular penetration testing suite Metasploit Framework and the founder of the Metasploit Project. HD Moore is the industry’s most famous white hat hacker, his framework is used by almost every hackers.
The open source penetration testing suite Metasploit was designed by HD More and the security firm Rapid7 acquired in 2009.

He now serves as Chief Research Officer at security firm Rapid7 and on Wednesday he announced that he is leaving the security company to join an unnamed new venture capital firm. He will leave Rapid7 on January 29th.
HD Moore is leaving Rapid7 after more than six years to build a new company with a friend, according to the news circulating on the internet it is a new venture capital firm that focuses on startup security firms.
“Rapid7 has been my home for the last six years, growing from 98 people when I joined to over 700 today. Keeping up with the growth has been both exhilarating and terrifying. I am really proud of our Austin team, the Metasploit ecosystem, and our leadership in security research. We care about our customers, our employees, and our impact in the industry. Working at Rapid7 has simply been the best job I have ever had. We have surpassed every goal that I set when I joined in 2009.” Moore wrote in a blog post.
“Since the only thing more insane than working at one startup is working with multiple startups at the same time, this seemed like a perfect match and a way to contribute back to the security community,” Moore said in a blog post announcing his departure. “Late last year, a friend of mine offered me an inspiring opportunity. After some reflection, I realized that the role he described was a natural evolution of my career in this industry. I will be leaving Rapid7 to help build a new venture capital firm focused on helping early-stage security companies get to market faster. Since the only thing more insane than working at one startup is working with multiple startups at the same time, this seemed like a perfect match and a way to contribute back to the security community.”

Is it a farewell?
No, HD Moore will continue to work on Metasploit and will remain active in the community.
“Metasploit is thriving. Our research continues to shine light on exposures both wide and deep. Rapid7 is recognized as a champion of open source development. Rapid7 is a solid brand name in both enterprise security and the security community. We have helped shape vulnerability disclosure and the politics of security research. We scan the internet, legally, and share the data with the world. We help our customers improve their security while continuing to support the security community.”
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – HD Moore, mobile)
