
					FIN5 hacking crew steals 150,000 credit cards from casino					
The fact that the game can create problems is not a novelty, news of the day is that an un-named Casino has lost 150,000 credit cards. The cause of the data breach also in this case is a cyber attack.
According to the researchers Emmanuel Jean-Georges and Barry Vengerik of Mandiant and FireEye, the hacking crew behind the attack is the “Fin5.”

The Fin5 is linked to numerous payment card breaches including Goodwill, the hacking group is also known for the use of the “RawPOS” malware that allowed the gang to raid payment systems worldwide by scraping the memory of PoS searching for credit card data.
RAWPOS malware is a memory scraper that has infected lodging merchants since 2008 by targeting the memory dump where payment information may be temporarily stored, and that data are staged on a network and removed later by a separate process.
Fin5 is prolific and long-running cybercrime ring that has been the subject of multiple Visa security alerts to merchants due to the use of its malware.
“One of the most unique things about FIN5 is that in every intrusion we responded to where FIN5 has been active, legitimate access was identified. They had valid user credentials to remotely log into the network,” said Barry Vengerik, principal threat analyst at FireEye. “No sexy zero-days, no remote exploits — not even spearphishing. They had credentials from somewhere.” states FireEye .
How the hackers raided the payment systems at the Casino?
Experts at FireEye/Mandiant confirmed the poor security implemented by the IT staff of the Casino, its payment platforms were not protected by network appliance, neither by strong authentication mechanisms.
The hackers at FIN5 group hack organizations by using stolen credentials, then they target Active Directory to obtain more credentials and gain lateral movement.
“It is classic lateral compromise,” Vengerik says. “It was a very flat network, single domain, with very limited access controls for access to payment systems,” explained Emmanuel Jean-Georges during the Cyber Defence Summit (formerly Mircon) in Washington DC. “Had this casino hotel operator had even minimal or basic protections in place like a firewall with default deny systems to limit access to PCI (payment) systems … it would have slowed down the attackers and hopefully set off red flags.”
Unfortunately, the casino isn’t the unique organization hit by the hackers, FireEye has identified at least another six card breach.
Vengerik explained that the threat actors have targeted at least two payment systems providers and in cascade their customers, the un-named casino is one of them.
In the specific attack against the Casino, the experts discovered that the Fin5 gang used a backdoor codenamed Tornhull and a VPN dubbed Flipside to maintain the control over the compromised system.
In the arsenal of the FIN5 group there was also a tool called GET2 Penetrator, which is a brute force scanning tool that search for remote login and hard-coded credentials, and a free tool called EssentialNet that is used to scan the target network.
The RawPOS malware includes several components such as the Duebrew, which is used to maintain persistence on Windows machines, the memory scraper Fiendcry and Driftwood used to encode the stolen payment card information.
Stay Tuned!.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Fin5, credit card)
