
					G7 Summit – States demand Internet Giants to join forces against online propaganda					
The effort is necessary to fight against terrorism in a wake of the recent tragic Manchester attack.
“The G7 calls for Communication Service Providers and social media companies to substantially increase their efforts to address terrorist content,” the G7 states said in a statement.
“We encourage industry to act urgently in developing and sharing new technology and tools to improve the automatic detection of content promoting incitement to violence, and we commit to supporting industry efforts in this vein including the proposed industry-led forum for combating online extremism,” 
Investigators believe that the Manchester bomber may have been radicalized online by Islamic State groups active on social media.
“Make no mistake: the fight is moving from the battlefield to the internet,” Prime Minister Theresa May told her G7 colleagues while chairing a discussion on counter-terrorism in the Sicilian resort of Taormina.
Another common objective of the G7 is the identification and the prosecution of foreign fighters involved in various conflicts various areas, such as the Syria and the Turkey.
The G7 states are requesting the support from local authorities to prosecute the foreign fighters, Lebanon, Jordan and Iraq are areas of high interested in the investigators.
The investigators believe that the Manchester bomber had been to Syria after visiting his parents’ homeland of Libya.
“It is vital we do more to cooperate with our partners in the region to step up returns and prosecutions of foreign fighters,” added May.
“This means improving intelligence-sharing, evidence gathering and bolstering countries’ police and legal processes.”
(L-R): EU Council President Donald Tusk, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, US President Donald Trump, Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni, French President Emmanuel Macron, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, British Prime Minister Theresa May and European Union Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker pose for a family photo on the first day of the G7 Summit at the Teatro Greco in Taormina, Italy, 26 May 2017. The G7 Summit will be held from 26 to 27 May 2017. ANSA/ETTORE FERRARI ANSA/ETTORE FERRARI
The G7 states have to improve information sharing processes on terrorism issued, law enforcements and intelligence agencies share results of the investigations and border security methods with countries where foreign fighters travel through or fight in.
Every time a foreign fighter cross a border, specific actions must be triggered to track down them and their organizations.
“When our allies find evidence, such as video or papers, of illegal activity involving foreign fighters, for example a Brit in a conflict zone, they should pass that to our authorities. It may help prosecute foreign fighters when they return.”
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – G7 Summit Taormina, Foreign fighters)
