
					The Fappening part 6 is out … a boring saga					
The effects of the Fappening, aka the iCloud Hack, are still evident in the cyberspace. Relentless hackers have released over the weekend a new archive, it is the part 6 of the overall Fappening case, that includes the images of other five Hollywood celebrities.
According to the news reported in the Internet, the hackers have tried to  persuade the image hosting site Imgrobot to publish the leaked images of the Fappening saga, after that the managers of the website have removed all photos fearing copyright violation lawsuits from the Hollywood celebrities.
The Fappening 6 archive includes the images of Nicola Peltz, Bradley Martin in the A&E series Bates Motel, Tessa Yeager actress in the Transformers : Age of Extinction movie and of the actress and msician Krysten Ritter. The new archive of the Fappening collection includes also pictures of celebrities not involved in previous leaks, including American Idol finalist Angie Miller, Aubrey Cleland and Tobie Percival.
 
Also in this case the pictures seem to have the same origin of the photos included in the archives released under the Fappening Umbrella, they all come from iCloud accounts that were hacked by criminals.
Sergei Kholodovskii, a 28 year old Russian is the owner of iCloud Hacks leaked images website that anyway declared that he isn’t involved in the data theft, his role is just to act as a facilitator for the diffusion of the Fappening Archives.
“All the photos on our website were taken from open sources, no individual’s privacy was violated,” said Sergei Kholodovskii. Kholodovskii published on his website a disclaimer to specify its position, and explained that will host more photos is they were available on the Internet.
Summing up the various episodes of the Fappening case, let me remind you that the Part 5 of iCloud Hacks leaks were posted online a couple of weeks ago.
The Fappening 5 included the images of another 7 Hollywood celebrities,  model Allegra Carpenter, Kaime O’Teter, British actress, Lauren O’Neil, TV star, Lindsay Clubine, Miss Virginia USA, 2013, Shannon McAnally, Wailana Geisen and Nina Stavris.
Who will be next?
Pierluigi Paganini
Security Affairs –  (The Fappening, data leakage)
