
					Lizard Squad launches DDoS attack also on PlayStation network					
A week ago the hacking team known as the Lizard Squad brought down the Xbox Live online service with a DDoS attack. Microsoft users were not able to access the online platform for several hours, the service has several problems that lasted for a couple of days. Yesterday the hackers of the Lizard Squad crew hit again the Xbox Live service with a news DDoS attack and the hackers also announced new attacks also against the PlayStation Network.
The PlayStation Network was also hit by the hackers, the entire network was down for two hours early Monday morning, as confirmed by Sony, which explains that the attack hasn’t caused any data breach.
The PlayStation Network gamers trying to access the online store at around 2 am GMT on Monday morning saw the message: “Page Not Found! It’s not you. It’s the internet’s
“Page Not Found! It’s not you. It’s the internet’s fault”
Sony informed it users via Twitter that it was “aware of the issues some users are experiencing, and are working to address them” but it hasn’t provided further information. In conjunction with the announcement of Sony,

In addition, the group of Lizard Squad claimed the responsibility for the attack through it Twitter account, Gamers were able to access the platform in the early hours of the morning.

It’s not the first time that the Lizard Squad team attack Sony PlayStation, in August the team hit the platform and the hackers also claimed to have diverted the SOE President’s Plane.
The hacking of Gaming platforms is a serious problem for the security industry, gaming consoles manage a huge quantity of user data and are a privileged target for cyber criminals and Intelligence Agency.
Even if no data is stolen from the attacks there is the problem of damages to the reputation of the targeted companies, in the specify case both Xbox and Play Station online services were brought down for the second time.
Another element to consider in these cases is that compromising a gaming network it is possible for an attacker to hit with its resources another target, for example the gaming console could be abused to run a DDoS attack against a Government website.
Security is an essential pillar of gaming industry especially today because the console are always online and manage an impressive amount of data.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  Sony PlayStation, gaming)
