
					US Military wants cyber warriors along with soldiers on the Battlefield					
The news was reported by officials this week, it confirms the strategic importance of Information warfare in the modern military. Cyber warriors will be engaged in the offensive against enemy computer networks.
The Army is investing in cyber capabilities training a new generation of cyber soldiers at a huge center in southern California.

According to Colonel Robert Ryan, who commands a Hawaii-based combat team, while the Army’s mission is generally to “attack and destroy,” the cyber troops will have a different and crucial role in the battle.
“Not everything is destroy. How can I influence by non-kinetic means? How can I reach up and create confusion and gain control?” he explained.
The involvement of cyber troops in military operations is not a novelty, cyber warriors have been integrated for six months in infantry units.  Colonel William Hartman of the Army’s Cyber Command added that they will tailor operations according to commanders’ needs.
Hartman didn’t reveal details on cyber operations that will be assigned to cyber soldiers, he only referred that they would be involved in information gathering and intelligence.
In August, President Donald Trump ordered the US Military to create a separate cyber warfare command tasked with cyber warfare operations.
President was thinking of a separate command specialized on electronic and online offensive and defensive operations.
“This new Unified Combatant Command will strengthen our cyberspace operations and create more opportunities to improve our nation’s defense,” Trump said in a statement.
“The elevation of United States Cyber Command demonstrates our increased resolve against cyberspace threats and will help reassure our allies and partners and deter our adversaries.”
US cyber warriors have been involved also in counter-terrorism operations, according to the New York Times, CYBERCOM conducted missions to infiltrate and spy on Islamic State group networks. In some cases, the cyber troops alter commanders’ messages so they unwittingly direct ISIS militant to areas likely to be hit by drone or plane strikes.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  US Cyber Command, Information Warfare)
