
					Faulty firmware OTA update bricked hundreds of LockState smart locks					
At the last Black Hat hacker conference, security experts demonstrated how to hack electronic locks, and the news I’m going to tell you demonstrates how annoying could be an incident to occurred to hundreds of smart locks.
While the number of IoT devices continues to increase, several times we questioned about the necessity to connect to the Internet objects that we ordinary use, such as a home appliance.
Last week, nearly hundreds of Internet-connected locks stopped working after a faulty software update.
The problem affected some models of remotely accessible smart locks manufactured by the US company LockState. Many users have complained that their Lockstate 6000i electronic locks started to fail from last Monday, following the firmware update, the built-in keypad was useless.

Many Airbnb customers were not able to use the built-in keypad on the smart lock devices to unlock the doors.

LockState confirmed the problem was caused by a faulty OTA firmware update issued last week that caused a “fatal error” in the smart locks, following the incident the devices are unable to reconnect to the company’s web servers, this means that is is impossible to fix the problem with a new OTA update.
The experts explained that the problems were caused by the distribution to the to 6000i family of the firmware intended for 7000i model smart locks.
According to the company, about 500 locks have been affected
LockState assured it will cover all shipping costs for the affected smart locks and will also provide one year of free service for the LockState Connect Portal, that is a subscription-based service which allows full remote control of all compatible smart home devices.
“We will pay for the shipping of your lock both to LockState and the return back to you within the continental US.  We will also be providing you with 1 year of free service for the LockState Connect Portal for these locks” states the email.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – LockState, smart locks)
