
					New variant of Zorenium Bot can infect iOS devices					
Security analysts at SenceCy are monitoring the evolution for the Zorenium Bot, a new and unknown malware which has been advertised in the underground since January 2014.
This is the third article in two days of cyber criminal activities against mobile industry, demonstrating the high interest of cybercrime in the exploitation of so powerful and widespread platforms.
Zorenium Bot seems to be an ongoing project, the authors provided new updates this month, probably the most important improvement announced is the ability to infect Apple iOS devices. Apple iOS devices based on version from 5 up to 7 could be infected by the Zorenium Bot, exactly like Linux and Windows based machines.

The cost for the entry-level Zorenium bot is 350 GBP, the price grows up to over 5000GBP if the botnet includes advanced features like the support of P2P communication to C&C, or i2p C&C.
The authors of Zorenium Bot  have updated the rootkit to TDL4 (Alureon), a very common rootkit that has been around for several years used in numerous large botnets.  Recent versions TDL4 has different advanced capabilities, including the ability to bypass some Windows code-signing requirements.
The security analysts consider the Zorenium Bot very insidious because it still goes undetected by most AV companies. 
The Zorenium Bot is an extremely versatile malware, it could be used for surveillance activities thanks formgrabbing and remote monitoring features, for financial frauds thanks the implementation of features of banking Trojan, to run DDoS, instructed as Bot-killing agent, to mine Bitcoin.
Zorenium has been advertised on Pastebin, the full release notes for the latest version of Zorenium bot provided detailed information on malware functionalities.
According to the developers Zorenium bot is still in beta mode, future release could include more features that can make the botnet more resilient.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  Zorenium bot, cybercrime)
