
					Samsung presented GAIA, a security solution for Smart TVs					
Security experts have no doubts, IoT devices will be a privileged target for hackers, for this reason, security firm are designing solutions to mitigate cyber attacks against connected smart objects.Samsung is one of the company that is more investing in the security of IoT devices, a few days ago it presented GAIA, a Smart TV security solution.
GAIA implements a three-layer security solution that will run on all Samsung 2016 Tizen-based Smart TVs. The solution is designed to protect services, software and hardware of Samsung Smart TV.
Tizen is an operating system based on the Linux kernel and the GNU C Library implementing the Linux API, it is used by many IoT devices, including smartphones, smart TVs, and wearable devices.
“Protecting consumers’ personal information is of the utmost importance to Samsung, both in terms of the company’s values and what’s needed for the continued growth and success of the IoT ecosystem,” said Hyun Suk Kim, President of Visual Display Business at Samsung Electronics. “GAIA is a security solution that will give Samsung customers security and peace of mind now and in the future.”

GAIA aims to protect the personal data of consumers, and it can do it protecting core operations, data in input, and data in transit.
Gaia implements a Secure Zone, a virtual barrier to protect the core service operations and a Secure Keypad that is used to allow users to submit data through a secure input mechanism seen on a TV. The Secure KeyPad is designed to protect consumers’ personal information, including login credentials and credit card data submitted through the Smart TV.
Gaia also improves security at the hardware level by dividing the Tizen OS into two parts including the main and the security space
“Thirdly, Security level is also strengthened in terms of hardware. By dividing the Tizen OS into two parts including the main and the security space, data for each space is secured separately. Also, public key used for verifying personal information is included in the hardware chip.” states Samsung.
GAIA also protects data exchanged by SmartTV and service providers by encrypting the information.
Experts at Samsung also included in the security solution an anti-malware system which is able of detecting and blocking any malicious codes that could modify software components of the Smart Tv.
The design of the GAIA solution is an important step in securing IoT devices from even more sophisticated cyber threats.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Samsung GAIA, Smart TV)
