
					Chinese Hackers Comment Crew stole plans of Iron Dome Defense System					
An investigation by a Maryland-based cyber security firm ‘Cyber Engineering Services Inc. (CyberESI)’ revealed the disconcerting reality, he also reported that the Chinese hackers accessed plans regarding other other missile interceptors, including drones, ballistic rockets and the Arrow III missile interceptor which was designed by Boeing and other US-based companies.
 

 
In February 2013, the Mandiant Intelligence Center released an interesting report on a large-scale cyber espionage campaign dubbed APT1.  The term APT1 is referred to one of the numerous cyber espionage campaign that stole the major quantity of information all over the world.  After the disclosure of the Mandiant Report the Comment Crew went in the dark, senior researcher at FireEye. Alex Lanstein explained that The Comment Crew was still working undercover after an apparent period of rest.
“They took a little breather, and they started back up,” he said.
Security researchers noted that after the intense activities observed early 2013 the group stopped using its infrastructures and suspended attack the company initially targeted, in reality the Comment Crew group started new campaigns against new and old targets from different infrastructures.
“We didn’t see them take control of any of the systems they had previously compromised,” “They started fresh with a whole new round of attacks.” Lanstein revealed.
The Mandiant’s report blamed the Chinese military unit called “61398” for a series of cyber attacks that compromised 141 organizations in seven years. Experts at Mandiant identified a common pattern for the attacks originated from Chinese sources defining also a series of key indicators for identifying ongoing APT attacks.
“All told, CyberESI was able to identify and acquire more than 700 files — totaling 762 MB total size — that were exfiltrated form IAI’s network during the compromise. The security firm said most of the data acquired was intellectual property and likely represented only a small portion of the entire data loss by IAI.”
“The intellectual property was in the form of Word documents, PowerPoint presentations, spread sheets, email messages, files in portable document format (PDF), scripts, and binary executable files,” CyberESI wrote in a lengthy report produced about the breaches.
Pierluigi Paganini
Security Affairs –  (Iron Dome, cyber espionage, Comment Crew)
