
					Islamic State launches the Kybernetiq magazine for cyber jihadists					
The ISIS continues to demonstrate great communication capabilities, the dreaded radical organisation not only master social media for its propaganda, but now has launched a magazine titled Kybernetiq.
The magazine aims to instruct jihadist on how to participate in the cyber war against the Western infidels. The members of the ISIS consider technology a crucial instrument in the fight against its opponents, and the Kybernetiq magazine explains it.

One of the articles of the first number titled “Digital Brand” states explains the importance to use encryption to protect communications avoiding any modification of the well-known enciphering algorithm. Each modification may, in fact, compromises the robustness of the algorithm, the author incentives the use of secure end-to-end encryption systems such as the GNU Privacy Guard (GnuPG)-encryption program.
“as a brother in Islam, I feel obliged in this post-Snowden era to strongly discourage crypto-programs with a mujahid branding. This includes programs like Asrar al-Mujahideen, Amn al-Mujahid, Asrar al-Ghurabaa and various mobile applications.”
In December, the FBI’s Director James Comey called for tech companies currently providing users with end-to-end encryption to review “their business model” and stop implementing it.
The end-to-end encryption allows users to communicate securely on the internet making impossible for law enforcement to eavesdrop the traffic.
The articles included in the Kybernetiq magazine explain to the ISIS members which are the programs to protect their anonymity avoiding eavesdropping and how to use them.
Representatives of the  intelligence are aware that members of the ISIS used the “Channels” feature implemented in the Telegram messaging service to reach a wide audience for their propaganda.
“The enemy is reading you. Stay vigilant and don’t underestimate them,” states articles in Kybernetiq.
A specific session is written to explain how intelligence agencies use metadata to track terrorists. Under a section titled “Metadata can kill”, author of the magazine clearly warns of surveillance which is undertaken by intelligence agencies like the US National Security Agency (NSA).
Under a section titled “Metadata can kill”, the author of the Kybernetiq magazine warns readers about surveillance activities operated by the western intelligence.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Kybernetiq magazine, ISIS)
