
					Anonymous hacked the Donald Trump ‘s voicemails					
The Anonymous hacking collective continues its personal battle against Donald Trump, this time hacking the voicemail of the presidential candidate.
On Thursday, Gawker received an anonymous email containing recordings from Donald Trump’s voicemail inbox. The recordings include messages left for Trump by various celebrities, Joe Scarborough from MSNBC, Mika Brzezinski, and Tamron Hall.
The journalists from MSNBC television can be heard thanking Mr Trump for donations.
The Gawker journalists could not determine the exact dates of the messages neither ensure their authenticity. A number of messages make references to the events of the 2012 presidential campaign season.
Anonymous “declared war” on Mr Trump in December, when he called for a sweeping ban on Muslims entering the United States soil.

Other messages were sent by popular journalists and anchors, MSNBC news anchors Joe Scarborough, Mika Brzezinski and Tamron Hall have been tasked with analyzing the evolution of the Mr Trump’s Republican primary campaign.
Mr Scarborough and Ms Brzezinski, the co-hosts of a morning show on MSNBC, can be heard thanking Trump for his donation to a charity event.
“You must be, like, on your jet or something,” states the message left by Ms Brzezinski. “We’d love to talk to you.”
“We are so, so grateful for everything, Donald, and we just want to call you and tell you how much it means to us,” says Mr Scarborough.
The recording includes also the Mr Trump’s recommendations for an MSNBC interview, it is possible to hear Mr Trump instructing both Mr Scarborough and Ms Brezinski to “make us all look good”, and asks for “nothing too hard” when Ms Brezinski asked if she should question him about his immigration issues.
The Tweets by the anchors after the disclosure of the recording seems to confirm their authenticity

In another recording a woman identifying herself as “T Hall”, likely MSNBC’s Tamron Hall, can be heard saying she was going to use Mr Trump’s discount in a luxury clothing store.
“I celebrated by going to Gucci, and I’m going to use your discount, because there’s a green dress that’s like $3,000, and I need a discount bigger than… my discount.“ she says. 
Anonymous also released a video that shows hackers gaining access to the administration console of Donald Trump’s answerphone and change settings.

One of the messages was left by Barack Obama’s advisor David Axelrod can also be heard thanking Mr Trump for donating to his epilepsy charity.
It is curious that Trump has criticized Hillary Clinton for her use of an insecure private email server during her time as Secretary of State, but as highlighted by Gawker, “Unfortunately for Trump, it would seem that his voicemail isn’t much safer.”
Stay Tuned …
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – Anonymous, Donald Trump)
