
					President Obama at the G-20 Summit: US has more capacity than anybody, both offensively and defensively					
Governments recognize the cyberspace as the fifth domain of warfare, in June the NATO alliance communicated during the Warsaw summit that it has officially declared cyberspace a warfare domain and confirmed that a cyber attack on any of its allies will be considered as an act of war.
Almost any government is improving its cyber capabilities, but the militarization of cyberspace hides many pitfalls that concern everyone.
Obama continues to express his concerns about the situation warning of nation-state actors, hackers and cyber criminals creating cyber ‘Wild Wild West.’
President Obama explained to the reporters at the G-20 summit in China, that this is a delicate historical moment, we are moving into a “new era.”
Almost any Government is spending significant efforts in order to create sophisticated cyber weapons for their arsenals.
But according to President Obama, the US has “more capacity than anybody, both offensively and defensively.”
Hi have no doubts about the cyber capabilities of the US Cyber Army, anyway, we cannot underestimate any adversary in the cyberspace. Recently the arsenal of the NSA was hacked by alleged nation-state hackers that published only a trove of zero-day exploits and hacking tools.
The US President is inviting all the Governments to use responsibly the new generation of cyber weapons in their arsenal.  It is necessary the adoption of strict rules on the use of new weapons, avoiding that cyber arms race could turn into a free-for-all:
“We’re going to have enough problems in the cyber space with non-state actors who are engaging in theft and using the internet for all kinds of illicit practices.
[We] cannot have a situation where this becomes the Wild Wild West, where countries [that] have significant cyber capacity start engaging in… unhealthy competition or conflict through these means.”
U.S. President Barack Obama, left, and Chinese President Xi Jinping shake hands at the West Lake State Guest House in Hangzhou, China, Saturday, Sept. 3, 2016, on the sidelines of the G-20 summit. (How Hwee Young/Pool Photo via AP)
Obama urges the institution of “some norms” so that “everybody’s acting responsibly.”

The President Obama’s declaration comes weeks after alleged foreign hackers have hacked the DNC and voting systems in at least two US states.
Russian President Vladimir Putin, of course, denied the involvement of his country in the wave of cyber attacks against 2016 Presidential Election
“Does it even matter who hacked this data? The important thing is the content that was given to the public.” said President Putin.
“There’s no need to distract the public’s attention from the essence of the problem by raising some minor issues connected with the search for who did it. But I want to tell you again, I don’t know anything about it, and on a state level, Russia has never done this.”
In his address to reporters at G-20, Obama put out a call to institute “some norms” so that “everybody’s acting responsibly.”
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – President Obama, G 20 Summit China)
