
					5 Anti-Surveillance tools that can help you enhance online security and privacy					
There are many software tools that can help you preserve and protect your privacy online. For your benefit, I’ve compiled a list of the top 5 software tools that can help you protect your online privacy and security.
DuckDuckgo was launched in 2008 as an alternative search engine that respects user privacy and claims to have a “superior search experience with smarter answers.” It is one of the most popular search engines that provide real privacy and smarter search without tracking user activity.
This search engine doesn’t log or share any personally identifiable information. DuckDuckGo doesn’t use any cookie and it immediately discards IP addresses of users, nor does it keep any record of searches performed.
PureVPN is a highly regarded Hong Kong-based VPN service offering an unusually wide range of software clients for different platforms, which include Windows, Mac, Ubuntu Linux, and mobile apps for Android, iOS and manual configuration for Windows Phone.
PureVPN operates a self-managed VPN network that currently stands at 750+ Servers in 141 countries, which include seldom-covered areas such as Oceania, Africa, and Central America. It provides an extra layer of privacy. It doesn’t collect or log your online activities and doesn’t monitor what you do online. It promises the best online privacy.
PureVPN has a wide variety of security protocols like OpenVPN, IPSec/L2TP, PPTP, SSTP, and IKEv2. It encrypts your entire internet with 256-bit encryption to protect data and online activities.
ProtonMail is a free and encrypted email client which provides and enhances your email security to keep your data safe. It’s also available on smartphone devices with special apps for Android & iOS. It provides complete email security with end-to-end encryption. Your emails as well as your contacts always stay private.

Cryptocat is one of the most secure chat software for your computer which allows you to chat with your friends in complete privacy. Every message you send via this app is secured with end-to-end encryption, which ensures all of your communications with other Cryptocat users remains protected.
This open source desktop application is available for Windows, OS X and Linux. With this software, you can also share encrypted files, pictures and videos to your buddies safely and easily. Cryptocat users can also receive messages even when they’re offline.
HTTPS Everywhere is a free extension which is available on Chrome, Firefox and Opera. This extension is developed primarily by the Tor project and Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF). This extension encrypts your communications with many websites and makes websites use the more secure HTTPS connection instead of HTTP, if they support it.
We hope that the above extensions will help you out in increasing your online privacy and security. If you have any suggestions that you think are worth adding to this list, feel free to let us know.
About Author (Anas Baig):
Anas Baig is a Digital Marketer & Security Enthusiast. He loves to read & write about Digital Security. If you are interested to get tweets about Marketing & Security !
Follow him on twitter @anasbaigdm


Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs – privacy, security)
