
					The hacker Stefan Esser shows the jailbreak for iOS 8.4 beta 1					
Apple has just released the iOS 8.4 beta version for its mobile devices and the popular hacker Stefan Esser, also known as i0n1c, has already released a jailbreak to the community of mobile users. The popular expert has published a video PoC titled “iOS 8.4 Beta 1 Jailbreak Preview 1” for his jailbreak.
i0n1c has a significant experience in the development of iOS jailbreak tools, he designed many of them in the past. i0n1c has developed many untethered iOS jailbreak, which are jailbreak where iOS device doesn’t require any reboot with a connection to an external device used to execute commands directly on the device.
Be aware, the expert doesn’t plan to release the iOS jailbreak exploit kit for iOS 8.4 neither a new firmware release.

The video shows an iPhone 6 Plus that runs the Cydia application. Cydia is an application very popular within the community of iOS Apple users, it is the jailbreaker’s App Store alternative for iOS. The unofficial store contains thousands of apps, themes, and many other downloads. Using Cydia iOs users can find and install applications on their jailbroken iOS Apple devices, the majority of the software in the store are available for free.
To demonstrate that the jailbreak works, Esser shows off the Apple Watch companion app, the Music app, and the new Emoji keyboard.Esser shows off the Apple Watch companion app, the Music app, and the new Emoji keyboard.

Esser explained that in order to Jailbreak the iOS 8.4 Beta 1 he exploited a known vulnerability in Apple’s iOS, but he added proudly that its exploit code had nothing in common with CyberElevator for iOS 7.1.1.
“Instead, it is inside the code virtually forever,” said i0n1c.
The hacker posted the video along with a detailed note, which reads:
Apple users now have to wait that also other popular teams of experts, such as TaiG or PanGu will work to complete and release an exploit tool for the iOS 8.4 Beta 1 Jailbreak. The Chinese PanGu team has recently released a partial iOS jailbreak for Apple’s iOS 8.3 that works for all iOS device models such as iPhones, iPod and iPads. Users can easily install the Cydia to their iOS 8.3 device using this SemiJM method which is an online process that takes 2-3 minutes to complete the operation.
Resuming, the great news is that it is possible to Jailbreak the iOS 8.4 Beta 1, the bad news is that Esser will not release the Jailbreak to the public.
Pierluigi Paganini
(Security Affairs –  Apple, jailbreak iOS 8.4)
