New Fakebank Variant Intercepts Calls to Connect Banking Users to Scammers
We’ve recently come across a new malicious behavior among apps infected with Android.Fakebank: interception of phone calls made by users to their banks. These apps are sourced from third-party Android markets and some social media sites. We’ve discovered 22 apps so far, targeting Korean bank clients. 

The Fakebank variants we’ve seen in the past usually collect bank SMS, record phone calls to banks, and display a fake bank login UI. This new variant, however, is able to intercept calls both incoming and outgoing.
When the app is launched, it collects and submits user’s personal information to a command and control (C&C) server, and presents its display (Figure 1).
The server will respond with configuration specifying the phone numbers that will be used in the scam (Figure 2).
Four numbers are passed to the malware app:
This allows the app to deceive users, when the configured phone numbers appear for an outgoing or incoming call:
When users call a real banking phone number, the malware is able to intercept and transfer the call to the scammer’s configured phone number. When a call comes in from a scammer, the app will overlay a fake UI dialog that spoofs a legitimate bank caller ID and number.
The APIs and associated permission used to carry out this deception (android.permission.SYSTEM_ALERT_WINDOW) have evolved across Android versions. This malware optimizes its version targets to avoid requesting permissions from the user:
In addition to tricking users into conversations with scammers, this malicious app sends call events to the C&C server. It also has a number of layouts customized to popular phone layouts in Korea.
Mitigation
Symantec recommends users follow these best practices to stay protected from mobile threats:
Protection
Symantec and Norton products detect this malware as Android.Fakebank.
Shaun is a member of Symantec’s Security Technology and Response team where he is focused on security research, and innovation on mobile platforms.
Shaun is a member of Symantec’s Security Technology and Response team where he is focused on security research, and innovation on mobile platforms.
Martin is a member of Symantec’s Security Technology and Response team who are focused on providing round-the-clock protection against current and future cyber threats.
Martin is a member of Symantec’s Security Technology and Response team who are focused on providing round-the-clock protection against current and future cyber threats.
