
Talos Threat Research Summit Guide and Cisco Live Preview






The first Cisco Talos Threat Research Summit is coming up at Cisco Live! in Orlando, so we are providing a quick guide to all the activities going on at the summit and beyond. The response to the summit was stronger than we could have anticipated for the first year - it sold out fast!  Next time, we definitely need a bigger boat. Whether or not you have a ticket to the summit, read on for a guide of how to stay on top of what's happening in Orlando, and how you can connect with the events Talos is holding around Cisco Live! 2018.


Talos Threat Research Summit (Sold Out!)

Sunday, June 10, 7 a.m. - 7:30 p.m. ET




The Talos Threat Research Summit is designed by defenders, for defenders. It is focused on practical defensive security research and techniques. The emphasis is strongly on giving defenders actionable information, tactics, and intel they can take back to their organization and put to work immediately. In the modern threat landscape, better defense is no longer a wish-list item. Attacks are no longer "if" but "when," and in some environments, "how many times today?" The content selected for the Talos Threat Research Summit was curated to not only bolster knowledge but to facilitate opportunities for defenders to build relationships with their peers, which can be a defender's most powerful resource.






Agenda and Session Info
Agenda and speakers are available on the Talos Threat Research Summit event page (cs.co/TTRS18).






Social Channels
You will find highlights, quotes, and other content being tweeted directly from the summit across @TalosSecurity, @CiscoSecurity, and other Twitter accounts. Follow the #TTRS and #CLUS hashtags to catch all the conversation. Sessions will not be streamed, but content will be made available to attendees on the Cisco Live! content portal.






Reception
After the Talos Threat Research Summit, attendees will have the opportunity to network with each other and Talos team members in attendance.

















Cisco Live Session -Talos Insights: The State of Cyber Security (BRKSEC-2010)

Thursday, June 14, 1 - 2:30 p.m. ET

Craig Williams, Director Talos Outreach, Cisco — Distinguished Speaker



Cisco Talos specializes in early-warning intelligence and threat analysis necessary for maintaining a secure network. People responsible for defending networks realize that the security threat landscape is constantly in flux as attackers evolve their skills. Talos advances the overall efficacy of all Cisco security platforms by aggregating data, cooperating with teams of security experts, and applying the cutting-edge big data technology to security. In this talk, we will perform a deep analysis of recent threats and see how Talos leverages large datasets to deliver improvements to products and mitigation strategies.



Beers with Talos @Live!

Tuesday, June 12, 4 - 6 p.m. ET



Join us at the CiscoTV set on the second floor balcony overlooking the main entrance and conference hall. We will be recording a special session of the Beers with Talos podcast, and you can watch us go without the benefit of editing!  Stop by while the crew is recording - the first person hit Craig with Snorty wins a t-shirt!


Other Fun Stuff at Cisco Live!


The Hunting Game

Monday, June 11 - Thursday, June 14, all-day


The Hunting Game debuted at Cisco Live! Melbourne earlier this year and it was a big hit. Players are in the role of incident responders. Using Cisco kit and old-fashioned logic, they have one hour to assess and respond to the incident and to prevent future attacks. The game is designed for beginners and pros alike. For info and locations, see the Hunting Game post on the Cisco Security blog.


