Trump confirms carders raided Las Vegas hotel sales tills
Trump Hotel Collection has confirmed in a letter to customers that IT security at one of its Las Vegas hotels was breached.
News emerged in July of a possible breach at the US chain owned by real estate magnate and Republican candidate Donald Trump.
It was suspected at the time based on intelligence from bank fraud sleuths that Trump's hotels in Chicago, New York, Los Angeles, Honolulu, Las Vegas and Miami were breached.
Compromised card data includes account numbers, expiration dates, CCVs, and cardholder names.
The Trump Hotel Collection through its legal house Norton Rose Fullbright has warned in a letter to customers that malware was found in its payment card systems operating between 19 May and 2 June.
"... we are providing notice of a security incident possibly affecting certain individuals who made payment card purchases at Trump International Hotel & Tower Las Vegas," a letter posted to the website of California's Office of the Attorney General.
"While the independent forensic investigator did not find evidence that information was taken from the Hotel’s systems, it appears that there may have been unauthorised malware access to payment card information as it was inputted into the payment card systems.
"As part of the investigation, THC has removed the malware and is in the process of reconfiguring various components of our network and payment systems to further secure our payment card processing systems."
Vulture South has contacted Norton Rose Fullbright to confirm the date of the letter.
The hotel chain is offering customers a year of free credit monitoring for those affected.
It is likely that credit cards were successfully exfiltrated from the Trump Las Vegas site, despite that investigators have not explicitly "confirmed" the theft, given that news of the now confirmed breach emerged on the back of fraudulent card activity detected by banks.
The breach comes as rival outfit Hilton Hotels was reportedly popped thanks also to point-of-sales malware.
Cards were reportedly siphoned between 21 April and 27 July this year.
Hotel boss Trump is the first choice of 21 percent of Republican primary voters according to a recent Wall Street Journal poll. ®
Sponsored: The Six Essential Capabilities of an Analytics Driven SIEM
