McAfee upgrades cloud security and Intel identity kit
McAfee has upgraded its enterprise Cloud Security Platform and activated the first in a series of integrations with parent company Intel's identity management systems.
The security company has beefed up data loss systems to cover email and web gateways and added in a simplified management control and reporting panel that allow common policy and control settings across hybrid clouds and on-premises systems. New context-aware software locks systems down further and provides real-time feedback.
Mobile users are also getting an update, with web protection software that reroutes laptop traffic through either the company's own web gateway or via a cloud provider to ensure security policies are consistently followed. The varied working styles and locations of mobile workers increases the likelihood of a security breach, Anne Aarness, McAfee senior product marketing manager, told The Register.
McAfee's ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) administration is also getting a major upgrade to incorporate Intel's cloud single sign-on (SSO) technology, which sets up a secure portal for individual users to access cloud applications, built on Salesforce's Force.com platform.
Cloud SSO has a password generation application that works with Windows, Android, iOS and RIM for endpoints and allows a single password to manage authentication across all platforms and applications. Users get a single portal showing them what applications are available.
Intel is claiming hundreds of cloud applications will work with the system, with more on the way. Those users with Intel hardware can also use Chipzilla's identity protection technology that's built into the die.
“This is the starting point in the direction of the vision of how we can make sure that the transaction from the client to the cloud are secure,” Vikas Jain, director of product management for application security and identity products at Intel, told The Register last month. “This is just phase one of that and more contextual elements will come in the future.” ®

Sponsored: 
Following Bottomline’s journey to the Hybrid Cloud

