Another NHS hospital stricken with Conficker virus
Analysis The infamous Conficker worm has infected yet another NHS facility.
Computer systems at the West Middlesex University Hospital NHS Trust were infected by the worm last Friday, leaving hospital staff unable to book appointments via computer. The outbreak has been contained but some hospital IT systems remain unavailable, resulting in ongoing delays to patients and affecting the smooth running of the medical facility.
A hospital spokeswoman told El Reg that the malware infection, identified as the Conficker-A, struck on Friday afternoon. "Most of the computers had to be cleaned, so we've had to rely on a pen and paper system to book appointments. Technicians worked over the weekend to clean up systems. Priority systems are running but the clean-up is likely to last until the end of the week."
The Hounslow Chroncle reported on Tuesday that email and internet access was affected by the outbreak but net connections since largely been restored. A notice on the Trust's website warns patients to expect delays.
This is causing some operational issues. We have implemented our business continuity plan and are operating manual systems as part of our standard procedure. We do have a number of computers working in several priority areas such as A&E, ITU, theatres and some out-patient departments.
We have contacted all our partner organisations and are doing everything we can to get back to normal. We apologise for the inconvenience that has been caused so far but do ask the local community to refrain from contacting the hospital for non-urgent requests.
A&E is open and accepting patients. If it is not an emergency, we would encourage the local community to contact their GP, visit their local pharmacy and use walk-in centres such as The Heart of Hounslow and Teddington Memorial Hospital where possible. More information about these services can be found at www.nhs.uk
The hospital has 400 beds and employs 1,900 staff to serve the needs of 400,000 residents in the London boroughs of Hounslow and Richmond-upon-Thames.
It's unclear how the infection occurred at West Middlesex but recent UK public sector Conficker infections have been blamed on either infected USB drives or external laptops.
Victims of the malware in the last month alone have included Greater Manchester Police, Mid Cheshire NHS Trust and Leeds NHS. The malware infection at GMP had severe operational consequences after senior officers decided to disconnect force systems from the Police National Computer and court systems for five days while a clean-up operation took place.
Conficker first began spreading in November 2008, initially taking advantage of a then recently patched Microsoft Windows vulnerability to spread. Since then its ability to spread via infected USB sticks onto host PCs and from there across weakly secured networks have come to the fore. Early victims included the Houses of Parliament, Ministry of Defence, Manchester City Council and several hospitals in the UK alone.
David Harley, director of malware intelligence at net security firm Eset, and an NHS IT manager for five years, told El Reg that continued problems with Conficker were far from confined to the public sector, despite the number of outbreaks in hospitals and government facilities since the start of the year.
"I don't think it's only the public sector," Harley said. "Our monthly statistics indicate that Conficker-related threats have been top of the pops for many months past: in January, it accounted for nearly 12 per cent of detections 'phoned home' by installations of Eset software worldwide."

Sponsored: 
Following Bottomline’s journey to the Hybrid Cloud

