Sophos gulps down hot Mojave, will puff out more secure clouds
Sophos has slurped up the security firm Mojave Networks in a bid to develop the world's strongest and most secure cloud.
You should probably now get excited about data security.
"Mojave Networks is a young innovative company that has built a leading platform right at the intersection of three cutting-edge areas of security: cloud, web security, and mobile," gushed Kris Hagerman, Sophos CEO.
"We're dedicated to delivering security that is both powerful and comprehensive, but also simple. By integrating Mojave Networks' technology into Sophos Cloud, we're extending our leadership position and enhancing an offering that is already one of the fastest growing products in Sophos' history," he added.
Here's a list of benefits Sophos customers can expect to receive when Mojave's technology is integrated into its cloud, at some point during 2015:
A cloud-based web filtering engine enabling full protection for web interactions without requiring additional on-site technology
Near instantaneous protection from emerging threats by supplying real-time threat intelligence from the cloud
A zero-compromise approach to security across Windows, Mac, iOS, and Android devices, delivering context-awareness, visibility and seamless protection
"We are proud of the work we've done at Mojave to pioneer a cloud-based approach to mobile and web security that offers unrivaled protection from malicious threats, security for mobile workers, and uniform policies across platforms," said Garrett Larsson, CEO of Mojave Network.
"As part of Sophos we can continue to pursue our vision of comprehensive security for a mobile workforce, as we take full advantage of the rapid growth of Sophos Cloud, Sophos' world-class community of more than 15,000 partners, and Sophos' global presence. We're excited to join such an innovative and disruptive leader in the IT security space."
Ever wonderered why it's bad to be a disruptive worker but OK to be a disruptive leader? That's capitalism kids. But hey, at least your cloud is a little safer today. ®

Sponsored: 
Following Bottomline’s journey to the Hybrid Cloud

