Juniper readies Pulse security for mobiles
Juniper Networks has unzipped several new products for wireless devices this weekend as a counterpoint to Cisco's own ambitions in the mobile space.
The networking kit, announced Sunday, builds on Juniper's newfangled "Project Falcon" mobile push that it has been somewhat belatedly fleshing out for the Mobile World Congress conference and exhibition this week in Barcelona.
Juniper already gave a peek last week at some of wireless wares that it would be wielding at the show, which involve Falconry for its MX 3D "universal edge" family of routers and line cards.
The fresh pair of new software offerings unveiled February 14 for the Spanish showcase take a whack at corporate mobile phones and operators.
First up is Juniper's mobile-client security software, called Junos Pulse. Available in Q2 2010, Juniper claims Pulse will provide smartphones, notebooks, and netbooks with location-aware and identity-aware access to enterprise networks using the same SSL VPN gateway as traditional desktops.
Juniper said that it's working with mobile OS providers to have Junos Pulse ready for Microsoft Windows phones, Nokia Symbian OS devices, and other unspecified smartphone operating systems. While important names to drop like the iPhone, Android, and BlackBerry were absent from the announcement, Juniper claims Pulse will support "76 percent of all smartphones in use worldwide" upon its release.
Pricing details were also absent, although the company said they will be "consistent" with the prices of its existing SSL VPN and Unified Access Control products.
The company is further pumping security into the space with Juniper Mobile Secure for service providers. The new software uses the Junos Pulse platform and SRX Series Services Gateways to embed mobile-oriented security across devices, applications, and networks.
Juniper is also trotting out a new software-certification and partner-outreach program called Junos Ready Software. Under this banner, Juniper and what it claims is a growing list of partners, vow to develop new applications for Junos that are designed for mobile video delivery, service monitoring, mobile security, and the like.
Vendors currently currently on board with making Junos Ready Software for mobile operators including IBM and a bunch of smaller firms such as Ankenna Networks, Webroot, Feeva Technology, and Triveni Digital.
Just last week, Juniper announced it was creating a new business group specifically around the Ready Software initiative.
Juniper's mobile assault will attempt to counter products beginning to be rolled out by Cisco as the result of its purchase of mobile expert Starent Networks in 2009. ®

Sponsored: 
Following Bottomline’s journey to the Hybrid Cloud

