Scout Association's shelved database won't be back until next year
The Scout Association has further delayed the date for restoring its troubled Compass database, which contains the details of 450,000 young people and volunteer adults.
The new live date has been tentatively set for January 2016, a year since it was originally taken down following revelations by The Register of serious concerns surrounding the security of the system.
Previously, the Association had committed to early autumn to get the system up and running again.
One member, who asked not to be named, said: "I would love to know what kind of defects have taken 12 months to fix, considering this system contains the personal information of every child within Scouting."
In an email to members seen by The Register, the organisation said volunteers and staff have been testing the system "and we’re pleased to say that test results look very promising."
It said: "We have been working with the developers of Compass and the world’s largest security testing company to restore local access once we are confident it is secure and working effectively."
The email said before the organisation switches the system back on it will carry out further testing, including a full security test.
"If this testing is successful, our estimated restoration date will be January 2016. A phased roll out to Compass adult records will start with focused access to specific roles including local line managers and Appointment Secretaries."
It added: "Thank you for your patience. Access to Compass will only be restored once we are confident it is secure." The body said it will further update members next month.
"We are acutely aware of the inconvenience and frustration experienced while Compass has not been available locally. We’d like to thank you for your patience and understanding during this difficult period. Many thanks," it said.
The Register contacted the Scouts Association for comment last week. ®

Sponsored: 
Following Bottomline’s journey to the Hybrid Cloud

