Hacked-corporate-email-as-a-service costs just US$500 a seat!
Want to read a business rival's email? Dell wonks say hacked-corporate-email-as-a-service operators can deliver for just US$500.
That low, low, price is offered by one accomplished hacker on a popular cyber crime forum and detailed in a Secure Works report on the cost of hacking services.
The hacker charges less for raiding personal email and social media accounts with popped Gmail, Facebook, Hotmail, and Yahoo! accounts costing US$129.
Buyers are told how the hacker has pulled off the exploitation which they boast does not involve changing passwords and will not be detected by victims.
It is all part of a customer focus, Dell researchers say.
"... hackers are expanding their working hours and are using guarantors who ensure the exchange of data and payment takes place fairly by holding the money and product before distributing it to both parties for a small fee," they write in the report.
"... customer satisfaction and happiness remain of high concern for hackers looking to deliver the very best customer service. "
The report finds prices have dropped for some hacking services and risen for carding services, with regional exceptions.
Australian credit cards have historically been the most expensive and prices are still rising. A stolen Aussie Visa Classic or MasterCard credit card that includes important track one and track two data has increased in price by US$5 to US$25 between 2014 and last year.
Prices for premium Antipodean Visa Classic credit cards with equivalent data has jumped from US$12 to US$35 over the same period, matching prices for monstered MasterCard cards.
Those not content with flipping TVs and Playstations with stolen cards can stump up as much as US$4750 for an Aussie bank account loaded with US$62,567, according to crime advertisements.
Gutting Russian businesses is where mercenary hackers seem to exert their biggest effort, a surprise finding given the propensity for Eastern European cyber crims to avoid drawing local heat.
The Russian criminals will sell all credentials associated with the business' bank accounts including two factor tokens, tax data, original lease agreements, and even the passport of the head financial officer.
"Our security experts had never seen a full business dossier being sold for any companies, much less for Russian organisations," researchers say. "The possibilities (for abusing the information) are extensive."
Such a huge cache can be bought for as little as US$550.
Picking up the crumbs are the distributed denial of service attack kids who sell booter services that cost up to US$1000 a month or US$5 an hour to send targets offline.
An increasingly common sold item is 3D-printed ATM skimmers, Dell finds. ®

Sponsored: 
Following Bottomline’s journey to the Hybrid Cloud

