Get ready for another HYPEGASM: New iPADs 'in October'
So soon after drowning the world in iPhone 6 and iOS 8 hype, Apple is said to be planning another party next month to launch more iPads and OS X Yosemite.
Apple pushed out a new version of OS X Mavericks – specifically 10.9.5 – on Wednesday. But, according to Bloomberg, by late October the Cupertino iGiant will take OS X Yosemite out of beta – and unveil new models of the iPad and iPad Mini. The 'slabs are due to go one sale shortly after.
This will put the new models into the market just as the holiday shopping season kicks off. Apple typically records its best sales over the Christmas period.
Hopefully, this alleged shindig in October will go smoother than the company's big iPhone 6 launch on September 9. The unveiling was marred by streaming video problems and grumblings about the company's decision to distribute a free U2 album to all customers, whether they wanted it or not. The much-hyped Health Kit code didn't work on arrival, and the Apple Watch – starting from an eye-watering $349 – won't appear until next year.
Users have also been caught short by the iOS 8.0 download, made available today: depending on the iDevice, some need about 5GB of free space to install the new OS, which is tricky on 8GB and 16GB models, or indeed any model filled with photos, apps and other data. Owners of iThings with modest capacities are advised to delete stuff and update using iTunes on desktops in order to cram in the update.
Some app developers also cautioned users over updating their iCloud accounts to the new iCloud Drive service, as the new platform is not compatible with iOS 7 gadgets or older OS X computers – so you can't sync between, say, an iOS 7 phone and an iOS 8 iPad if you switch to iCloud Drive on the iPad. Apple itself warns of this during the upgrade process. iCloud Drive is not required for iOS 8.
Apple has also detailed the security vulnerabilities fixed in the new iOS version, and claims data on the devices are encrypted using your passcode – meaning Apple can't decrypted the files if asked to by cops or g-men.
The squashed security bugs were hiding in iOS's Wi-Fi network code, the kernel, and the Mail and Safari apps among others. In total, the update addresses 56 CVE-classified vulnerabilities. ®

Sponsored: 
Following Bottomline’s journey to the Hybrid Cloud

