Another iPhone passcode bypass spell revealed
Apple's recent release of iOS 6.1.3, complete with fix for the weird keypress sequence that allowed access to and export of iPhone address books, seems to have been just a little bit futile after a new bug with the same effects emerged.
The source of the new method is someone or something called Vbarraquito, whose youTube channel offers the video below demonstrating the new magic unlock spell.
The new iPhone unlocking spell involves turning off Siri (where present), messing around with Voice Control, ejecting the SIM and cooking a potion based on unicorn blood. Once the planets align, the iPhone can then make calls without the passcode being entered and the address book is accessible.
 
var MediaPlayerVars = {
    '_': { 'YOUTUBEURL': {
        screencolor: '000000',
        width: 580, 
        height: 358, 
        image : 'https://regmedia.co.uk/2010/09/24/playnow_reg4.png',
        abouttext:  'El Reg Player, based on the JW Media Player',
        lightcolor: 'cc0000'
} }
};

Vulture South's fat-fingered staff have been unable to replicate this method, but several others claim to have done so.
Apple will doubtless be more than a little embarrassed at this new gaffe, which further damages its reputation for both security and attention to detail.
It's safe to assume Apple will soon offer a counter-spell in the form of an iOS update, this time paying special attention to all manner of keypress combinations. Apple's also due to start talking up the successor to iOS 6, probably at its worldwide developer conference tipped for June. If a slide or two in the iOS 6+x presentation doesn't make mention of enhanced security, colour us surprised.
As to the question of whether this latest spell will dent iPhone sales, The Reg suggests readers seeking an answer use our search facility to look for pieces on “antennagate” and “Apple Maps”, then consider Apple's share price and Samsung/Android's growing market share. Coincidence? You be the judge. ®

Sponsored: 
Following Bottomline’s journey to the Hybrid Cloud

