Netflix's house of cards to be fortified with HTTPS appliance
Netflix will this year roll out HTTPS to keep customer's viewing habits secret.
The streaming company's April earnings letter (PDF) says it will make the move because it "helps protect member privacy, particularly when the network is insecure, such as public wifi, and it helps protect members from eavesdropping by their ISP or employer, who may want to record our members’ viewing for other reasons."
Netflix regularly opens the kimono to reveal its engineering efforts – and explained just how it will do HTTPS in a World Wide Consortium mailing list post by director of streaming standards Mark Watson.
Watson says the significant challenge to erase bandwidth overheads is worth the privacy benefits.
"[In October] we were uncertain of the gains we could achieve with software and hardware optimisation and of the timescale for those … I'm pleased to report we have made good progress on that," Watson says.
"We now believe we can deploy HTTPS at a cost that, whilst significant, is well justified by the privacy returns for our users."
Watson says the TLS deployment for its network of OpenConnect Appliances will apply to the Netflix site and content starting with large desktop browser tests, but did not stipulate the potential impact. Here's how the company plans to get the job done:
Netflix has battled with the overheads HTTPS incurs; Watson estimated a capacity hit between 30 to 53 percent thanks to encryption computational overheads and a lack of optimisations to avoid data copies to and from user space.
Such a hit would cost Netflix potentially hundreds of millions of dollars a year.
Tweaks could cut that overhead by a third while speculative advancements in the next several years could crush it by up to 80 percent.
Watson has together with colleague Scott Long and consultant John-Mark Gurney published technical findings in a paper Optimising TLS for High–Bandwidth Applications in FreeBSD (pdf) which examines the "server-side performance implications on CPU computational and data-movement overhead when enabling TLS on Netflix’s OpenConnect Appliance network". ®

Sponsored: 
Following Bottomline’s journey to the Hybrid Cloud

