LulzSec dumps hundreds of Arizona Police documents
Lulz Security's string of embarrassing hacks continued as the group released hundreds of internal documents belonging to various Arizona law enforcement agencies, including the Arizona Department of Public Safety.
Many of the documents released over BitTorrent are stamped “law enforcement sensitive” and “for official use only,” and the dump of some 700 files contains material from a variety of agencies, including the FBI, the Department of Homeland Security, and the Drug Enforcement Agency.
The Arizona Department of Public Safety has reportedly acknowledged that its computer systems were compromised and the department's website had been inaccessible for more than eight hours at time of writing. A post on LulzSec's website, said hackers targeted the agency for its enforcement of a recently enacted Arizona law that makes it a crime for aliens to be in the state without carrying immigration documents and gives police broad power to detain anyone suspected of being in the US illegally.
“We are targeting AZDPS specifically because we are against SB1070 and the racial profiling anti-immigrant police state that is arizona,” the post stated. it was headlined with the Spanish words “chinga la migra,” which translates to “fuck the border patrol.”
Among the chestnuts contained in the documents is the Mexican government's refusal to sign an agreement not to monitor US law enforcement officers' radio communications. “The implication is that obviously the Mexican Government intends to do a lot of listening,” the writer of an email stated.
Another leaked document warns about the risks of apprehending suspects carrying iPhones that have an app called Cop Recorder installed. “This can be activated while in a pocket and record everything the officer is saying,” the document states.
LulzSec has made credible claims for several other hacks and web attacks, including those on the PBS television network, Sony's motion picture website (contrary to many media reports, there's no evidence the group was behind a much more devastating attack on Sony's PlayStation Network), the US Senate, the Central Intelligence Agency, and the Serious Organised Crime Agency .
A 19-year-old UK man was arrested on Monday and later charged with participating in the denial-of-service attack on the SOCA website. ®

Sponsored: 
Following Bottomline’s journey to the Hybrid Cloud

