HP's TippingPoint security bods on the block, suits shuffled to make way for 3D printers
HP is apparently hoping to sell off its TippingPoint security branch – and has reshuffled execs at the top of its printer and PCs biz – as the looming corporate breakup closes in.
Reuters reported on Wednesday that Hewlett-Packard bosses are in talks with a handful of private equity firms that could pay anywhere from $200m to $300m in order to take over TippingPoint.
HP declined to comment on the matter.
Specializing in security research and network protection, TippingPoint was first acquired by 3Com in 2004, and in 2009 became part of HP when 3Com was bought for $2.7bn. TippingPoint's Zero Day Initiative, once a controversial business venture, has become a popular middleman for security researchers to report vulnerabilities to software vendors.
Reuters suggested TippingPoint will be left in the lurch by HP's corporate dismantlement and, not fitting in well with either HP Inc or HP Enterprise, has been put up for sale.
That breakup will also bring a handful of changes to the management structure at the new HP Inc – the printers and PC side of Hewlett Packard that will split away from HP Enterprise.
In an internal memo sent to employees this week, and seen by Channel Register, incoming HP Inc CEO Dion Weisler announced a series of executive moves, including the creation of a dedicated 3D printing operation to be led by HP's current Imaging and Printing senior veep Stephen Nigro.
"When we announced our plans to separate, we knew that 3D printing would be a key area of innovation and growth for HP Inc." Weisler said.
"Our company is positioned perfectly to take advantage of our sophisticated intellectual property and know-how to transform industries and power the next industrial revolution."
The Imaging and Printing division will then be led by Enrique Lores, whose old job as head of EMEA will be filled by Nick Lazaridis, formerly head of HP's Asia-Pacific-Japan (APJ) business.
HP remains on track to formally split itself into two companies at the start of its new fiscal year on November 1, 2015. Their operations separated earlier in August. ®
Sponsored: How Machine Data Supports GDPR Compliance
