Black Hat 2015: 32 SCADA, mobile zero-day vulns will drop
Gird your loins, admins; researchers are set to drop 32 zero-day vulnerabilities at the Black Hat hacking fest in Las Vegas in August.
The vulnerabilities have not been disclosed but they will affect mobile devices and Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems among other platforms.
"We have 32 different zero-day vulnerabilities that will be disclosed at the event," Wylie said. "The zero-days come from a broad swath of topics, including mobile and SCADA [supervisory control and data acquisition] systems," Black Hat general manager Steve Wylie reportedly said.
Black Hat has previously offered a stage to zero-day vulnerability disclosures affecting the likes of Symantec's Endpoint Protection, Microsoft's Internet Explorer , and SSL to name a few.
The massive US conference has tested the wind ahead of the event and polled 460 respondents from mostly large enterprises gauging the gap between security priorities and spend.
Unsurprisingly they found the money was not landing where the worry was.
"[It] reveals a disturbing gap between the priorities and concerns of these security-savvy individuals and the actual expenditure of security resources in the average enterprise," the report said [PDF].
"In short, the survey indicates that most enterprises are not spending their time, budget, and staffing resources on the problems that most security-savvy professionals consider to be the greatest threats.
"In the study, the vast majority of security professionals – 57 per cent – cited sophisticated, targeted attacks as their greatest concern yet only 26 per cent of respondents indicated that targeted attacks were among the top three IT security spending priorities in their organisation, and only 20 per cent of respondents said that targeted attacks were among the top three tasks where they spend the most time."
Social engineering suffers a similar shortchanging, while security bods lamented they will be hacked in the foreseeable future but lack the cash to stop it.
On the upside, just about everyone (94 per cent) realises the golden goose that is security skills in saying they will be able to get another job in the event their company burns to the ground. ®
Sponsored: Splunk Software As a SIEM
