Polite, helpful? Stop it at once in the name of security
In this article I'm going to talk about the second most important aspect of being an IT manager or engineer. “The second?” I hear you cry. Yes, the second, because the most important aspect is terribly dull and doesn't take 800 words to describe: safety. (And if you think I'm mad, ask yourself whether you'd break down the door of your secure data store to rescue the guy inside in the event of a fire).
The second most important aspect, then, is security. And that statement will annoy the hell out of business people (IT systems' purpose is to help them make money), system engineers (their purpose is to keep systems running and reliable), users (they need to be able to do their jobs efficiently and accurately and expect the systems to help them do that), customers (they want the online store to be snappy and deliver their order the same day where possible), … well, pretty much anyone.
As we all know, IT is one of those areas that only really gets noticed for its negative aspects. The beancounters see it as a cost centre and want to know why we can't get another year's use from the printers (hey, if they've coped for seven years surely another one won't make a difference).
The users only call IT when they can't get in, even if it's their own dumb fault for forgetting their mother's birthday and locking themselves out after three incorrect password attempts (then, given the chance, blaming IT when their mother didn't get a card).
The thing is, though, the same applies to security. And I'm not just talking about IT security – I mean security and corporate governance in general. And as with IT, the tangible benefit of security is generally pretty negligible … so let's look at some examples of how the downsides of security can completely nobble the best efforts of even the most efficient, effective parts of your company and your systems.
Security, then, has to be an absolutely core consideration for your organisation. After all, it's even worse than IT. At least with IT you get the occasional nice comment from a user when you give them a cool new laptop or you announce that the standard corporate mobile device for next year is the next-edition iPhone. The same can't be said of security: I can't recall any of my users ever saying: “Yay, what a neat RSA token!” or “Hey, I just thought of a fab password with at least one upper case character and some funky punctuation!”
But security/governance is as bad as IT in general when things go wrong: to paraphrase Henry Wadsworth Longfellow: when they are bad, they are horrid. ®

Sponsored: 
Following Bottomline’s journey to the Hybrid Cloud

