Weekly Threat Intelligence Brief: April 5, 2017
This weekly brief highlights the latest threat intelligence news to provide insight into the latest threats to various industries.
“There’s a new cyber threat on the horizon. And it’s fiendishly subtle and potentially very dangerous.
Fake data – altering databases and documents without anyone noticing.
Say you changed centrally held figures for a key metric such as soil fertility that many arable farmers use to organise their planting schedules.”
– BBC News
“March 30, 2017 – There were a record number of records compromised from data breaches in 2016, growing 566 percent in 2016 from 600 million to more than 4 billion, according to a recent IBM report.
The 2017 IBM X-Force Threat Intelligence Index also found that healthcare is also no longer the most attacked industry, as cyber criminals have started to place a larger focus back on the financial services industry.
Specifically, 12 million records were compromised in healthcare in 2016, which kept it out of the top five most-breached industries. In 2015, approximately 100 million healthcare records were compromised, which is an 88 percent drop from 2015 to 2016.”
– HealthIT Security
“McDonald’s Corp’s (MCD.N) Canadian unit said on Friday personal information of about 95,000 restaurant job applicants was compromised in a cyber attack on its careers website.
The information included names, addresses, email addresses, phone numbers and employment backgrounds of candidates who applied online for jobs at McDonald’s Canada restaurants between March 2014 and March 2017.
The careers website was shut down after McDonald’s learned of the attack, and will remain closed until an ongoing investigation is complete, the unit said.”
– Reuters
“A Russian court on Thursday upheld a decision to block the website of social networking company LinkedIn Corp., Interfax news agency reported, setting a precedent for the way foreign internet firms operate in the country.
Russia’s Roskomnadzor communications watchdog has said LinkedIn, which has more than 6 million registered users in Russia, was violating a law requiring websites which store the personal data of Russian citizens to do so on Russian servers.
Moscow has said the law, introduced in 2014 but never previously enforced, is aimed at protecting Russians’ personal data. Critics see it as an attack on social networks in a country which has increasingly tightened control over the Internet in recent years.”
– Reuters
“Dallas-based AT&T has been hired by the U.S. Department of Commerce to build and manage a nationwide broadband network for public safety communication between first responders.
The $46.5 billion high-speed network aims to equip police, firefighters and emergency medical services with the tools they need for real-time communication during crises, such as natural disasters or shootings. It will cover all 50 states, Washington, D.C., and five U.S. territories.
FirstNet, an independent arm of the U.S. Department of Commerce, awarded the 25-year contract to the telecom company. AT&T will invest $40 billion into the project. FirstNet will give AT&T $6.5 billion and 20 megahertz of telecommunications spectrum for the dedicated public safety network.”
– Dallas News
