Look Out For These Common Spear Phishing Scams

By Greg Ogorek
October is National Cyber SecurityCyber Security
Cyber Security: A set of security techniques that are designed to protect the integrity of computer systems, programs and data from theft and damage to their hardware, software or other information as well as the disruption and misappropriation of their services.
LGC (n) - Professional paid ninjas who protect the cyber world from cyber attacks. Everybody is doing it, but we have the double black belt with the Versace logo. So yeah, we’re really good. Awareness month (#CyberAware). In support of this campaign, we’re releasing educational blog post and infographics each week covering different cybersecurity topics. Today’s topic is spear phishing. While you might already be familiar with this topic, we invite you to share this article with friends, family, and colleagues.
Email is a wonderful method of communication. It was how Gen X’ers kept in touch before social networking sites like Facebook gained popularity, and it was once considered to be a fairly safe form of sending communications. At most, the biggest problem you had was receiving an annoying chain email that you had to pass on within 24 hours or risk having bad luck for seven years. Times were simpler before cybercriminals realized the Internet was an easy way to exploit hundreds, thousands, and eventually millions, of people at once.
But times change and so do the threats. I recently wrote a post about the different kinds of phishing scams, including puddle, spear, and whale phishing. I want to go more in depth about spear phishing in particular, as it has become a popular exploitation method for cybercriminals seeking to breach corporate networks without their knowledge.
With any message you receive, whether it is an email or a text, you have to be careful about what you click. When it comes to emails, not only do you have to be careful about links in the email message itself, but you also have to take caution about viewing the message in your email client’s preview pane. Malicious scripts, embedded coding, attached malware hiding in documents, and spoofed zip files pose an incredible threat to your personal information, and if you’re on a computer at work, to your company’s network and proprietary data as well.
Spear phishing targets specific individuals with personalized messages containing information that the victim will find relevant or legitimate. While it’s not always obvious when a message has been compromised, there are a few “classic” scams that should raise immediate red flags, and that you should definitely not click.
Being safe online means being smart offline. You should always think about these three things before responding to an unverified email, and potentially getting yourself caught in a scam:
As cybercriminals become more aggressive in their threat tactics, users need to remain vigilant about keeping their information safe. Always be aware of what you share online, and when in doubt, don’t click.
