Weekly Threat Intelligence Brief: May 17, 2017
This weekly brief highlights the latest threat intelligence news to provide insight into the latest threats to various industries.
“Suspected Russia-backed hackers have launched exploratory cyber attacks against the energy networks of the Baltic states, sources said, raising security concerns inside the West’s main military alliance, NATO.
Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, all members of NATO and the European Union, are on the political front line of tensions between the West and Moscow. The Baltics are locked into Russia’s power network but plan to synchronize their grids with the EU.
Interviews with more than a dozen law-enforcement and private investigators, insiders and utility officials show hackers have quietly made incursions into Baltic networks over the past two years, in parallel with more serious attacks in Ukraine that plunged swathes of that country into darkness.”
– Reuters
“While the federal health data breach tally shows that hacker incidents continue to rise in 2017, regulators are offering up some insights from their investigations into a handful of ransomware-related breaches reported in 2016.
A May 8 snapshot of the Department of Health and Human Services’ “wall of shame” website of breaches affecting 500 or more individuals shows that of 105 breaches reported so far in 2017, 35 incidents – or more than a third – involved hackers. The hacking incidents account for about 46 percent of the 1.84 million individuals affected by all breaches reported so far this year.”
– Healthcare Info Security
“A global spate of ransomware cyber attacks hit companies and government organizations in at least
The attacks, which see a virus encrypt a computers files and demand payment  in bitcoin to de-code them, began with an assault on NHS hospitals across Britain.
Russia, Ukraine, and Taiwan were the worst hit by the attacks by malware called WannaCry or WannaCry 2, Jakub Kroustek, a malware researcher at AVG Avast, said. “
– Telegraph
“Cyberattacks on governments, as a proportion of total attacks, doubled from 7 percent in 2015 to 14 percent in 2016, pulling the government sector into a first-place tie with finance, according to Dimension Data’s Global Threat Intelligence Report 2017.
Cybercriminals are often looking for a way to make a buck, so attacks on financial institutions make sense, the report said. But because governments hold sensitive personal information, budgetary data and national security information, they have been increasingly targeted, according to Matthew Gyde, Dimension Data’s Group security executive.”
– GCN
