Weekly Threat Intelligence Brief: April 18, 2017

This weekly brief highlights the latest threat intelligence news to provide insight into the latest threats to various industries.
“As of March 14, there have been 312 reported data breaches and more than 1.3 million exposed records in 2017, according to the Identity Theft Resource Center. Around 25 percent of all data breaches occurred in the medical/healthcare sector thus far in 2017.”
– Health IT & CIO Review
“This just isn’t slowing down. Last week, The Shadow Brokers, a hacker or group of hackers, released a cache of Unix focused exploits allegedly stolen from the NSA, including some that were not previously known to the affected vendors.
On Friday, the group dumped even more tools, but this time allegedly for targeting older Windows computers. The Shadow Brokers also released a series of apparent presentations and files relating to collecting data from banking systems.”
– Motherboard
“China’s top cyber authority on Tuesday released a draft law that would require firms exporting data to undergo an annual security assessment, in the latest of several recent safeguards against threats such as hacking and terrorism.
Any business transferring data of over 1000 gigabytes or affecting over 500,000 users will be assessed on its security measures and on the potential of the data to harm national interests, showed the draft from the Cyberspace Administration of China (CAC).
The law would ban the export of any economic, technological or scientific data whose transfer would pose a threat to security or public interests. It would also require firms to obtain the consent of users before transmitting data abroad.”
– Reuters
“The Internal Revenue Service said on Thursday that the personal data of as many as 100,000 taxpayers could have been compromised through a scheme in which hackers posed as students using an online tool to apply for financial aid.
The breach may be the most extensive since 2015, when thieves gained access to the tax returns of over 300,000 people by using stolen data and filed fraudulent returns to get refunds.
The possibility of an attack became known in early March after the I.R.S. shut down its Data Retrieval Tool, which families used to import tax information to Fafsa, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid, on the Education Department’s website. The shutdown, at the height of financial aid application season, caused outrage among parents and students trying to fill out the complicated Fafsa forms.”
– New York Times
