Weekly Threat Intelligence Brief: June 28, 2016
This weekly brief highlights the latest threat intelligence news to provide insight into the latest threats to various industries.
 
“Seven Democratic senators urged the U.S. Justice Department on Wednesday to block two mergers of major health insurance companies, saying that the proposed deals would mean higher premiums and lower-quality healthcare for consumers.
The department is reviewing Aetna Inc.’s $33 billion plan to buy Humana Inc. and Anthem Inc.’s $48 billion proposal to buy Cigna Corp. If approved, the deals, both of which were announced last July, would reduce the number of national health insurance carriers from five to three.“
– Insurance Journal
“The Anonymous hacking collective is ramping up cyberattacks against stock exchanges and financial institutions across the group as part of phase three of its Operation Icarus campaign – currently dubbed Project Mayhem.
The previous phase, launched in May, was originally billed as a month-long attack against central banks that used distributed denial of service (DDoS) techniques to overwhelm servers with traffic. Now, it seems the operation is set to continue.“
– IB Times
On June 15, in response to feedback from non-federal entities on guidance released in February, the Departments of Homeland Security (DHS) and Justice (DOJ) issued updated guidance for companies about sharing cyber threat indicators and defensive measures with the federal government under the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act (CISA). The guidance explains how companies can share such information with the federal government, both through the principal channel created by DHS and through other routes allowed by CISA. The guidance also explains how to identify and share cyber defensive measures. Finally, it recaps the different kinds of legal authorization and liability protection CISA provides for these activities.
– CISA Sharing Guidelines
“The Senate rejected legislation Wednesday that would allow the FBI to search Americans’ Internet browsing histories and email records without a warrant.
Supporters invoked the Orlando massacre to push for the measure, saying it would help federal agents identify terrorist suspects and thwart future attacks. But privacy rights advocates said the bill’s sponsors were using the mass shooting as a way to expand government surveillance and get around constitutional protections against unreasonable searches and seizures.“
– USA Today
“Ghost Squad Hackers dumped the data of US military personnel, according to a Facebook post published today.
The data is on a website on the Dark Web but was added to PasteBin after a few hours as well.
Group leaks data for around 3,400 servicemen
Dump #1 contains 433 records. […] Dump #2 contains 232 records. […] Dump #3 contains 2,750 records.”
– Softpedia
