Happy National Cyber Security Awareness Month!

October is National Cyber SecurityCyber Security
Cyber Security: A set of security techniques that are designed to protect the integrity of computer systems, programs and data from theft and damage to their hardware, software or other information as well as the disruption and misappropriation of their services.
LGC (n) - Professional paid ninjas who protect the cyber world from cyber attacks. Everybody is doing it, but we have the double black belt with the Versace logo. So yeah, we’re really good. Awareness Month (NCSAM). Again this year, LookingGlass is a NCSAM Champion supporting the importance of this initiative run by the National Cyber SecurityCyber Security
Cyber Security: A set of security techniques that are designed to protect the integrity of computer systems, programs and data from theft and damage to their hardware, software or other information as well as the disruption and misappropriation of their services.
LGC (n) - Professional paid ninjas who protect the cyber world from cyber attacks. Everybody is doing it, but we have the double black belt with the Versace logo. So yeah, we’re really good. Alliance to promote online safety.
The NCSAM weekly themes are:
There are many ways to get involved and promote cyber safety throughout NCSAM and beyond, some of which are outlined by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) here: https://www.dhs.gov/national-cyber-security-awareness-month.
You can get started by:
Phishing is one of the most prevalent cyber issues we continuously deal with, and it doesn’t seem to be going away. So, we thought this month would be the perfect opportunity to revisit the topic, which affects so many people around the world daily.
Each Tuesday, we will post a blog about phishing and how it relates to that week’s NCSAM theme. We are teaming up with some great companies for guest blogs, so make sure to follow us on Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, and Google+ to be the first to learn when a new blog is posted.
Remember, stay safe online!
