Weekly Threat Intelligence Brief: September 13, 2016
This weekly brief highlights the latest threat intelligence news to provide insight into the latest threats to various industries.


“The Florida Office of Insurance Regulation (OIR) and the Department of Financial Services (DFS) are warning state insurance consumers of a scam involving the unauthorized use of Insurance Commissioner David Altmaier’s name and position.
According to a statement from OIR and DFS, a fraudulent email, appearing to be sent from Altmaier, has been sent to consumers, notifying that all of the recipient’s insurance policies have be cancelled.”
– Insurance Journal
“Dridex, also known as Bugat and Cridex, is the moniker of a banking trojan and the name of its botnet (infected devices) used to commit other types of illegal activities, such as sending spam.
The criminal group behind it, a true cyber-crime syndicate, has people working around the clock updating Dridex’s source code with new features and new methods meant to help the trojan avoid getting flagged by security software.”
– Softpedia
A report released this week by the Milliman Management Consulting found that cyber securityCyber Security
Cyber Security: A set of security techniques that are designed to protect the integrity of computer systems, programs and data from theft and damage to their hardware, software or other information as well as the disruption and misappropriation of their services.
LGC (n) - Professional paid ninjas who protect the cyber world from cyber attacks. Everybody is doing it, but we have the double black belt with the Versace logo. So yeah, we’re really good. accounted for 40 percent of a retailer cost of risk based on 2015 data. The study found on average retailers paid 30 percent higher insurance premiums in 2015 as the result of cyber securityCyber Security
Cyber Security: A set of security techniques that are designed to protect the integrity of computer systems, programs and data from theft and damage to their hardware, software or other information as well as the disruption and misappropriation of their services.
LGC (n) - Professional paid ninjas who protect the cyber world from cyber attacks. Everybody is doing it, but we have the double black belt with the Versace logo. So yeah, we’re really good. incidents in the industry.
– Milliman
“Two North Carolina men were arrested Thursday on charges that they were part of the hacking group calling itself “Crackas With Attitude,” which allegedly executed a series of embarrassing data breaches against the head of the Central Intelligence Agency, a senior Federal Bureau of Investigation official, and the Justice Department’s case management system.
Andrew Otto Boggs, 22 years old, and Justin Gray Liverman, 24, were charged with being part of a conspiracy to access the personal accounts of senior government officials in late 2015 and early 2016.”
– Wall Street Journal
“The U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) did not follow rudimentary cyber securityCyber Security
Cyber Security: A set of security techniques that are designed to protect the integrity of computer systems, programs and data from theft and damage to their hardware, software or other information as well as the disruption and misappropriation of their services.
LGC (n) - Professional paid ninjas who protect the cyber world from cyber attacks. Everybody is doing it, but we have the double black belt with the Versace logo. So yeah, we’re really good. recommendations that could have mitigated or even prevented major attacks that compromised sensitive data belonging to more than 22 million people, a congressional investigation being released on Wednesday has found.
Two breaches at the federal agency detected in 2014 and 2015 were made worse by lax security culture and ineffective leadership, which failed to harness available tools that could have stopped or limited the intrusions, according to the report from the Republicans on the U.S. House of Representatives’ Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, a copy of which was seen by Reuters.”
– Reuters
