Weekly Threat Intelligence Brief: October 12, 2017
This weekly brief highlights the latest threat intelligence news to provide insight into the latest threats to various industries.
“Insurer Tryg (TRYG.CO) expects 90 percent of its corporate customers to buy cyber crime insurance within five years as the threat from hackers and viruses to crucial data and IT systems grows.
Tryg, Denmark’s biggest insurer, has sold 5,000 cyber crime insurance policies since the turn of the year when it launched a new product providing assistance in restoring data and getting systems up and running if a firm is hit by a cyber attack.
“There are no corporate clients today that don’t have insurance on their buildings or cars, but I think that within a very few years it will be just as evident that you should insure against cyber crime,” chief executive Morten Hubbe told Reuters on Wednesday.”
– Reuters
“In 2015, Russian agents stole highly classified NSA materials from a contractor, according to a new report in The Wall Street Journal. It’s a major breach of internal security, made possible after the contractor transferred the materials to his home computer in violation of known security procedures.
Even more alarming is how the foreign agents became aware of that violation. According to the report, the hackers seem to have identified the files — which contained “details of how the U.S. penetrates foreign computer networks and defends against cyberattacks” — after an antivirus scan by Kaspersky antivirus software, which somehow alerted hackers to the sensitive files.
It’s an embarrassing breach for the NSA, which has struggled with contractor security since the Snowden leaks. NSA contractor Harold Martin was charged with taking home classified documents in 2016, although the Journal makes it clear that the Martin case is unrelated to the latest news. This summer, the Justice Department charged NSA contractor Reality Winner with leaking classified documents concerning Russian election interference.”
– The Verge
“Every user who had a Yahoo account in August 2013 was likely affected by its massive hack, the company’s parent, Verizon, said Tuesday.
This latest disclosure triples the number of accounts compromised by the major 2013 data breach that the company disclosed late last year. At the time, Yahoo said hackers had stolen data associated with 1 billion user accounts; the new disclosure escalates that number to 3 billion.
Despite news of the hack’s much-broader scope, the company says the steps needed to protect all of its users were already taken last year, when the hack was first discovered.”
– NPR
“Russian government-backed hackers stole highly classified U.S. cyber secrets in 2015 from the National Security Agency after a contractor put information on his home computer, two newspapers reported on Thursday.
As reported first by The Wall Street Journal, citing unidentified sources, the theft included information on penetrating foreign computer networks and protecting against cyber attacks and is likely to be viewed as one of the most significant security breaches to date.
In a later story, The Washington Post said the employee had worked at the NSA’s Tailored Access Operations unit for elite hackers before he was fired in 2015.”
– Reuters
 
