ICYMI: Our Most Popular Blog Posts of 2014
 

2014 was another remarkable year in information security. In case you’ve missed any articles, here’s a look back at our most popular blog posts of 2014. They cover a wide range of threat intelligence and security topics. Check out what readers have found most interesting, and subscribe to the blog today to make sure you don’t miss any posts in 2015.
The word “clickjacking” might conjure an image of some dangerous species lurking in the shadows at night in the jungles of an unexplored continent, or perhaps an image of “carjackers” in the urban jungle. In reality, those descriptions aren’t too far off, except that instead of a jungle, we’re talking about the dense and complex network of the web. So, what is clickjacking, and how can you prevent it?
Krebs recently released Spam Nation: The Inside Story of Organized Cybercrime—From Global Epidemic to Your Front Door. Cyveillance Chief Scientist Caleb Queern recently spoke with Krebs about illegal online pharmacies, open source intelligence, the future of cybercrime, and more.
How common is it to find a phishing attack on a website administered by a government? To find the answer, we looked at the aforementioned data, which is comprised of all phishing URLs we found from September 2013 through September 2014 – a little more than 72,000 unique domain names.
The era of home-grown, basement hackers is over. In the past five years, Russian hackers have become increasingly organized and sophisticated, and now threaten individuals, organizations, and governments alike. Major crime syndicates have taken over, and the switch from offline crime to cybercrime has only maximized their profits and geographic reach. Criminal activities range from spamming to identity theft, child pornography to credential harvesting, and many other illicit activities.
Last summer Trend Micro observed online banking Trojans that were targeting South Korean banks. Now, compromised sites that contain exploit kits are delivering banking Trojans to site visitors. Some of the banks being targeted include Hana Bank, Nonghyup Bank, the Industrial Bank of Korea (IBK), Shinhan Bank, Woori Bank, Kookmin Bank, and the Consumer Finance Service Center. Once a customer has been infected with malware and is redirected to a phishing site that looks like a legitimate banking website, the criminals are able to steal their credentials.
 
