Weekly Threat Intelligence Brief: July 6, 2016
This weekly brief highlights the latest threat intelligence news to provide insight into the latest threats to various industries.
 
“Hackers have reportedly stolen $10m from a bank in Ukraine by exploiting the Swift messaging system, according to reports emerging from the region citing an independent IT monitoring organisation called the Information Systems Audit and Control Association (ISACA).
English-language newspaper, the Kyiv Post, has reported the ISACA branch in Ukraine disclosed that cybercriminals were able to compromise the bank’s security in similar fashion to the incident at the Bangladesh central bank in which $81m (£56m) was stolen by hackers.“
– IB Times
“A hacker is reportedly selling on the dark web copies of databases stolen from three unidentified U.S. healthcare organizations and one unnamed health insurer containing data on nearly 10 million individuals for prices ranging from about $96,000 to $490,000 in bitcoin for each database.
The hacker taking credit, who calls himself “thedarkoverlord,” is operating on the TheRealDeal dark web marketplace and is offering to sell “a unique one-off copy” of each of the databases, according to dark net news reporting website DeepDotWeb and other news sites. Some of the data being offered for sale appears to be old, according to news reports.”
– Data Breach Today
“Fast-casual restaurant chain Noodles & Company informed customers on Tuesday that its computer systems have been breached and cybercriminals could have stolen payment card data.
The company, which has roughly 500 restaurants in 35 states across the U.S., launched an investigation on May 17 after its payment processor detected unusual activity on cards used at Noodles & Company locations.”
– Security Week
“The Belgian data protection authority on Wednesday lost a legal battle with Facebook in which it sought to stop the social network from tracking the online activities of non-Facebook users in Belgium who visit the social network’s pages.
The Belgian Privacy Commission said the Brussels Appeals Court had dismissed its case on the grounds that the regulator has no jurisdiction over Facebook Inc, which has its European headquarters in Ireland.“
– Reuters
“They already know where you live, who you live with and what you do for a living – now the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) wants to monitor your social media activity before permitting you to enter the US.
A proposed update to visa application forms will now ask people travelling to the country to identify what social media platforms they use, as well as a “social media identifier”, such as a username or handle.”
– The Telegraph
