Weekly Threat Intelligence Brief: March 1, 2017
This weekly brief highlights the latest threat intelligence news to provide insight into the latest threats to various industries.
“Major healthcare breaches involving hackers accessing patient information soared in 2016 as criminals attempted to sell data for a quick profit. But now more attackers are shifting their attention to ransomware attacks because of the glut of stolen health information hitting the black market, says Dan Berger, vice president of the security consulting firm CynergisTek, which is now part of Auxilio.
“The biggest trend for 2016 was that healthcare providers were under attack,” Berger says in an interview at the HIMSS17 conference in Orlando. Hacking incidents at healthcare providers in 2016 increased 320 percent over 2015, he says of the most startling finding in the seventh annual Redspin breach report, issued by CynergisTek.”
– Healthcare Info Security
“Cloudflare, the web optimisation and security platform used by over five million websites, has confirmed a massive coding error resulted in the leaking of sensitive data of its customers for months – including passwords, internet cookies and private messages.
The bug impacted big-name brands including 1Password, Uber and dating site OKCupid, and has been blamed on a “memory leakage.” Cloudflare said in a technical summary of the flaw that around 1 in every 3,300,000 HTTP requests sent through its system were at risk.”
– IB Times
“U.S. corporations that have long resisted bending to the demands of computer hackers who take their networks hostage are increasingly stockpiling bitcoin, the digital currency, so that they can quickly meet ransom demands rather than lose valuable corporate data.
The companies are responding to cybersecurity experts who recently have changed their advice on how to deal with the growing problem of extortionists taking control of the computers.”
– McClatchy DC
“Integration of space, air and cyber teams, within the guise of the paradigm shift of multi-domain command and control chief of staff of the Air Force Gen. David Goldfien has pushed, is becoming a reality in the fight against the Islamic State group.
In a “war story,” Gen. Goldfein described how an MQ-9 Reaper was flying an armed reconnaissance mission over Iraq in early January when personnel received reports of satellite communications interference hindering the aircraft in carrying out the mission. Previously, Goldfein explained during a Mitchell Institute for Aerospace Studies event Feb. 3, personnel might have tried to troubleshoot and work their way through this issue, but the integration of space teams and prioritized SATCOM link monitoring has dramatically reduced troubleshooting and made the force more agile.”
– C4isrnet
