What is Phishing and How to Avoid Phishing Scams
This blog is part of LookingGlass’ phishing series in support of the National Cyber SecurityCyber Security
Cyber Security: A set of security techniques that are designed to protect the integrity of computer systems, programs and data from theft and damage to their hardware, software or other information as well as the disruption and misappropriation of their services.
LGC (n) - Professional paid ninjas who protect the cyber world from cyber attacks. Everybody is doing it, but we have the double black belt with the Versace logo. So yeah, we’re really good. Alliance’s initiative, National Cyber SecurityCyber Security
Cyber Security: A set of security techniques that are designed to protect the integrity of computer systems, programs and data from theft and damage to their hardware, software or other information as well as the disruption and misappropriation of their services.
LGC (n) - Professional paid ninjas who protect the cyber world from cyber attacks. Everybody is doing it, but we have the double black belt with the Versace logo. So yeah, we’re really good. Awareness Month (NCSAM). This first week of this month (October 3-7) discusses the basic steps to online safety and security.
If you’re on the Internet, there’s a good chance you’ve been the target of a phishing scam – whether it’s because you received a phishing email or clicked on a link from an unknown sender on social media. Recent studies show that about 56 percent of email users still click links from unknown senders[1], even though they’re aware of common phishing indicators.
Today, we’re going to discuss the basics of phishing, review how phishing scams work, and offer solutions for how you can avoid them.
Phishing is a tactic threat actor’s (cyber criminals, scammers, etc.) employ when trying to trick a target into giving away confidential information, such as a social security number, login credentials, ATM PIN number, credit card number, sensitive personal data, confidential business data, etc. This practice, a form of social engineering, uses human interaction to trick people into doing something they wouldn’t normally do otherwise (another topic we will discuss later this month).
Most people know phishing in its traditional form: Email phishing attacks. This can range from the more obvious “urgent message” from your bank requiring you to click a link and log-in to resolve the problem immediately, to the Nigerian email scams that that have been around for years, to an email that appears to be from a close family member who needs you to “quickly send money” because they are overseas and their credit cards have been stolen. As we become more connected, many people don’t realize that phishing doesn’t happen exclusively over email. You can also be phished via text messages, phone calls, instant messaging, and even social media.
There are many different types of phishing attacks. Some of the most popular include:
Phishing has become a simple process for the threat actor to accomplish. The attack can be as simple as an email with a “Lure” message containing a “hook” or call to action that involves visiting a fake web page, or just calling a voicemail in order to leave your private information on a recording. The tools used have become a commodity, with threat actors trading in a hidden market to share phishing kits, tactics and results.
Phishing has worked so well for so long because the messages seem legitimate and play into human emotion, such as to please, to protect, and to react out of greed or fear. The basic human instinct to trust others or familiar destinations (as in a website) is compromised by confidence-inspiring message content crafted to manipulate these emotions.
A tone of authority and urgency are also often portrayed in phishing messages, which can make you feel pressured to provide information that you would not normally share.
Combating phishing is more important than ever. The Anti-Phishing Working Group (APWG) saw more phishing attacks in the first half of 2016 than any other time in history. Phishing awareness starts with the individual. Organizations should consider a combination of cyber safety training for employees and investing in a phishing detection service.
Specifically, here are warning signs to look out for:
By: Greg Ogorek, Sr. Director Cyber SecurityCyber Security
Cyber Security: A set of security techniques that are designed to protect the integrity of computer systems, programs and data from theft and damage to their hardware, software or other information as well as the disruption and misappropriation of their services.
LGC (n) - Professional paid ninjas who protect the cyber world from cyber attacks. Everybody is doing it, but we have the double black belt with the Versace logo. So yeah, we’re really good. Operations and Michael Perry, LookingGlass SIU
Follow and connect with us on Twitter, Facebook, and LinkedIn if you would like to discuss any of our blogs in more detail, and see how else we are championing NCSAM here: https://www.lookingglasscyber.com/solutions/phishing/!
