XLoader Android Spyware and Banking Trojan Distributed via DNS Spoofing
We have been detecting a new wave of network attacks since early March, which, for now, are targeting Japan, Korea, China, Taiwan, and Hong Kong. The attacks use Domain Name System (DNS) cache poisoning/DNS spoofing, possibly through infringement techniques such as brute-force or dictionary attacks, to distribute and install malicious Android apps. Trend Micro detects these as ANDROIDOS_XLOADER.HRX.
These malware pose as legitimate Facebook or Chrome applications. They are distributed from polluted DNS domains that send a notification to an unknowing victim’s device. The malicious apps can steal personally identifiable and financial data and install additional apps. XLoader can also hijack the infected device (i.e., send SMSs) and sports self-protection/persistence mechanisms through device administrator privileges.

Figure 1. Screenshot of the fake Facebook and Chrome apps (highlighted)

Figure 2. XLoader’s infection chain
Infection Chain
As with our earlier reports in late March, the attack chain involves diverting internet traffic to attacker-specified domains by compromising and overwriting the router’s DNS settings. A fake alert will notify and urge the user to access the malicious domain and download XLoader.


Figure 3. Screenshot of the fake notification on a spoofed/poisoned domain 
Technical Analysis
XLoader first loads the encrypted payload from Assets/db as test.dex to drop the necessary modules then requests for device administrator privileges. Once granted permission, it hides its icon from the launcher application list then starts a service that it keeps running in the background. The background service uses the reflection technique (a feature that allows the inspection and modification of Java-based programs’ internal properties) to invoke the method com.Loader.start in the payload.

Figure 4. Code snippet showing the main malicious module invoked via the reflection technique
Monitoring Broadcast Events
XLoader registers many broadcast receivers in the payload dynamically (to monitor broadcast events sent between system and applications). Registering broadcast receivers enable XLoader to trigger its malicious routines. Here is a list of broadcast actions:
Creating a Web Server to Phish
XLoader creates a provisional web server to receive the broadcast events. It can also create a simple HTTP server on the infected device to deceive victims. It shows a web phishing page whenever the affected device receives a broadcast event (i.e., if a new package is installed or if the device’s screen is on) to steal personal data, such as those keyed in for banking apps. The phishing page is translated in Korean, Japanese, Chinese, and English, which are hardcoded in the payload. It will appear differently to users depending on the language set on the device.

Figure 5. Screenshot of the phishing page (in Japanese)
XLoader as Spyware and Banking Trojan 
XLoader can also collect information related to usage of apps installed in the device. Its data-stealing capabilities include collecting SMSs after receiving an SMS-related broadcast event and covertly recording phone calls. XLoader can also hijack accounts linked to financial or game-related apps installed on the affected device.

Figure 6. Code Snippet showing how XLoader records phone calls
XLoader can also start other attacker-specified packages. A possible attack scenario involves replacing legitimate apps with repackaged or malicious versions. By monitoring the package installation broadcast event, XLoader can start their packages. This enables it to launch malicious apps without the user’s awareness and explicit consent.
We reverse engineered XLoader and found that it appears to target South Korea-based banks and game development companies. XLoader also prevents victims from accessing the device’s settings or using a known antivirus (AV) app in the country.
XLoader can also load multiple malicious modules to receive and execute commands from its remote command-and-control (C&C) server, as shown below:

Figure 7. Screenshot showing XLoader’s malicious modules
Here’s a list of the modules and their functions:
Of note is XLoader’s abuse of the WebSocket protocol (supported in many browsers and web applications) via ws(WebSockets) or wss(WebSockets over SSL/TLS) to communicate with its C&C servers. The URLs  — abused as part of XLoader’s C&C — are hidden in three webpages, and the C&C server that  XLoader connects to differ per region.
The abuse of the WebSocket protocol provides XLoader with a persistent connection between clients and servers where data can be transported any time. XLoader abuses the MessagePack (a data interchange format) to package the stolen data and exfiltrate it via the WebSocket protocol for faster and more efficient transmission.

Figure 8. Screenshot showing one of the web pages with hidden C&C-related URL


Figure 9. Code snippet showing how XLoader parses the C&C URL
Mitigations 
XLoader will not download malicious apps if the Android device uses a mobile data connection. Nevertheless, users should practice proper security hygiene to mitigate threats that may take advantage of a home or business router’s security gaps. Employ stronger credentials, for instance, to make them less susceptible to unauthorized access. Regularly update and patch the router’s software and firmware to prevent exploits, and enable its built-in firewall.
For system administrators and information security professionals, configuring the router to be more resistant to attacks like DNS cache poisoning can help mitigate similar threats. Everyday users can do the same by checking the router’s DNS settings if they’ve been modified. Even threats like DNS cache poisoning employ social engineering, so users should also be more prudent against suspicious or unknown messages that have telltale signs of malware.
We have worked with Google and they ensure that Google Play Protect proactively catches apps of this nature. No instances of these apps were found in Google Play.
Trend Micro Solutions
Trend Micro™ Mobile Security for Android™ (available on Google Play) blocks malicious apps that may exploit this vulnerability. End users and enterprises can also benefit from its multilayered security capabilities that secure the device’s data and privacy, and safeguard them from ransomware, fraudulent websites, and identity theft.
For organizations, Trend Micro™ Mobile Security for Enterprise provides device, compliance and application management, data protection, and configuration provisioning. It also protects devices from attacks that leverage vulnerabilities, prevents unauthorized access to apps, and detects and blocks malware and access to fraudulent websites.
Trend Micro’s Mobile App Reputation Service (MARS) covers Android threats using leading sandbox and machine learning technologies. It can protect users against malware, zero-day and known exploits, privacy leaks, and application vulnerability.
Indicators of Compromise
Hashes detected as ANDROIDOS_XLOADER.HRX (SHA-256):
 
