Weekly Threat Intelligence Brief: October 5, 2016
This weekly brief highlights the latest threat intelligence news to provide insight into the latest threats to various industries.
Financial Services
“An army of networked devices – webcams, digital video recorders, CCTV cameras and routers – has been unwittingly drafted into doing electronic battle via a type of attack that has existed since the early days of the internet, but which has reached new levels of intensity in recent weeks.
Website operators and companies regularly fight off distributed denial-of-service attacks, which seek to take down services through overwhelming or else highly pinpointed barrages of traffic. DDoS attacks have typically been launched from compromised desktop computers. But in a development that experts have long forecasted, hackers are increasingly using so-called internet of things devices to launch record-breaking attacks.”
– Bankinfo Security
“[On] 1 October 2016, the contract between the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) and the United States Department of Commerce National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA), to perform the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) functions, has officially expired. This historic moment marks the transition of the coordination and management of the Internet’s unique identifiers to the private-sector, a process that has been committed to and underway since 1998.”
– ICANN
“DDoS mitigation giant Akamai, who were hosting the website of security blogger Brian Krebs free of charge, have dropped him from their servers, after his website was subject to the biggest recorded DDoS attack.
Coming in at a handsome 620Gbps, the DDoS suffered by Kreb’s website is predicted to be in response to the blogger reporting of outfit vDOS who were offering a DDoS-as-a-service type company.
The service was run by two Israelis who were consequently arrested after Krebs reported about them. The website is now down and still under attack.”
– SC Magazine
“DCLeaks, the same site that leaked Colin Powell’s embarrassing emails, has published what are purportedly personal emails from a White House staffer, including a scan of, allegedly, Michelle Obama’s passport.
First things first: Is it real?
Twitter users are pointing out that the purported passport is only good for 5 years, whereas most adult passports in the US are good for 10. I’ll update the story once I ascertain that.”
– Naked Security
