Weekly Threat Intelligence Brief: November 2, 2016
This weekly brief highlights the latest threat intelligence news to provide insight into the latest threats to various industries.
Financial Services
“A phishing campaign is targeting customers of every major UK bank, with cybercriminals posing as customer support staff on Twitter in an attempt to steal users’ online banking credentials.
Easy to carry out but difficult to defend against, phishing is an increasingly popular weapon of choice for hackers. That’s because, with an authentic-looking fake website, they can just sit back and scoop up data as victims unwittingly hand over their usernames and passwords.”
– ZDNet
“A widely expected legal challenge has been filed by an Irish privacy advocacy group to an EU-U.S. commercial data transfer pact underpinning billions of dollars of trade in digital services just two months after it came into force, sources said.
The EU-U.S. Privacy Shield was agreed earlier this year after the European Union’s highest court struck down the previous Safe Harbour agreement over the transfer of Europeans’ personal data to the United States, on concerns about intrusive U.S. surveillance.
The new agreement gives businesses moving personal data across the Atlantic—from human resources information to people’s browsing histories to hotel bookings—an easy way to do so without falling foul of tough EU data transferral rules.“
– Fortune
“A Chinese electronics component manufacturer says its products inadvertently played a role in a massive cyberattack that disrupted major internet sites in the U.S. on Friday.
Hangzhou Xiongmai Technology, a vendor behind DVRs and internet-connected cameras, said on Sunday that security vulnerabilities involving weak default passwords in its products were partly to blame.
According to security researchers, malware known as Mirai has been taking advantage of these vulnerabilities by infecting the devices and using them to launch huge distributed denial-of service attacks, including Friday’s outage.”
– ComputerWorld
